Hillary Clinton has been telling people - a group of financial backers in Brooklyn, a house party in Iowa - that as president, she would appoint Supreme Court justices who would overturn the Citizens United decision erasing limits on political spending by corporations.'I will do everything I can to appoint Supreme Court justices who protect the right to vote and do not protect the right of billionaires to buy elections' is the way she puts it.The pledge has evoked jeers from the right Hypocrisy! What about the stratospheric projections for her own campaign spending, let alone her super PAC? and a distinct absence of cheers from the left litmus tests 'take us down a very dangerous path,' Nan Aron, president of Alliance for Justice, a liberal umbrella group long active in judicial confirmations, told Tony Mauro of The National Law Journal. 'They will only prompt another litmus test on an issue like Roe v. Wade.'Republican presidential nominees have in fact for the past quarter-century run on a party platform that pledges them to appoint anti-Roe justices. The 2012 Republican platform declared: 'We support the appointment of judges who respect traditional family values and the sanctity of innocent human life.' That platform also has a section entitled 'Defending Marriage Against an Activist Judiciary.' Given the recent polls that show escalating public support for same-sex marriage, it will be interesting to see what version of that language makes it into next year's platform.It's hardly a favor to a Supreme Court nominee for a president even to suggest a desired quality beyond intellectual brilliance and fidelity to 'the law.'When President Obama, faced with his first Supreme Court vacancy, said he wanted a nominee with 'empathy' - a worthy aspiration for a quality not much in evidence on the current Supreme Court - Republican senators wasted no time in warning that it was just another word for judicial activism. They then affixed the activist label onto the president's nominee, Sonia Sotomayor, who had in fact spent a distinctly nonactivist 17 years as a federal judge but who was then forced to offer senator after senator a stilted pledge to do nothing on the bench but 'apply the law.'A litmus test announced during a campaign can be polarizing - perhaps needlessly, if a vacancy fails to materialize. Of course, candidates play to the base. That's clearly the case with abortion; most Americans, even if they support some limits on access to abortion, don't want to see Roe v. Wade overturned.Citizens United makes a fascinating litmus test because a majority of Americans - Republicans as well as Democrats - actually do want to see it overturned. Polling has been consistent on this point since the decision was issued more than five years ago. In a poll conducted jointly by a Democratic and a Republican polling firm in advance of last November's midterm elections, a majority of likely Democratic, Republican and independent voters said they opposed Citizens United.The decision, which invoked the First Amendment to reach its result, is unlikely to gain many new fans among the non-special-interest voting public in the current election cycle, during which once-unimaginable amounts of cash styled as independent expenditures will flow through the system.It's somewhat delicious, in fact, to imagine the scene in the Senate Judiciary Committee if a Clinton Supreme Court nominee expresses - as the four dissenting justices did at the time - disagreement with Citizens United. Are Republican senators really going to go to the mat during the confirmation process in defense of a Supreme Court decision that most of their own constituents hate. ? the effort will be - as it is already in some quarters of the right - to depict anyone who opposes Citizens United as an opponent of free speech. That's a characterization easily deflected. The problem with Citizens United, it has always seemed to me, is not whether corporations have a right to spend money to express their political views. They do, and they did under decades-old Supreme Court precedent before Citizens United, although many of the decision's critics don't seem to realize that fact. The mantra of 'money isn't speech' is too simplistic a critique; speech without money is speech that no one is going to hear.The problem is the legal reasoning the court employed in opening the floodgates to unlimited corporate spending. The only rationale the First Amendment permits for limiting political spending, the court said, is the prevention of corruption or the appearance of corruption. Fair enough, but then the Citizens United majority made its key move in defining corruption. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy's majority opinion said 'corruption' meant only 'quid pro quo' corruption - extracting or giving a promise in exchange for a political expenditure. In a word, bribery.Justice Kennedy's elaboration on this point is so divorced from reality that it reads more like a parody in The Onion than words to be found in a Supreme Court opinion. 'Independent expenditures, including those made by corporations, do not give rise to corruption or the appearance of corruption,' Justice Kennedy wrote. 'The fact that speakers may have influence over or access to elected officials does not mean that these officials are corrupt.' And then this beauty: 'The appearance of influence or access, furthermore, will not cause the electorate to lose faith in our democracy.'So it seems to me that all a Supreme Court nominee would have to say to a senator seeking to use the First Amendment as a sword would be: 'Yes, senator, of course I believe in free speech, even for corporations, but I believe in the real world, too. My definition of corruption and the appearance of corruption goes beyond out-and-out bribery, which you and I both know is almost impossible to prove.'Think how refreshing it would be if a Supreme Court nominee actually talked about something during the confirmation hearing.Of course, no one wants a president or senator to extract an explicit promise from any judicial nominee. President Richard M. Nixon asked for assurance from Harry A. Blackmun that he would not fall prey to the blandishments of the Georgetown party circuit; that private scene between the shy judge and the awkward president must have been hilarious. Extracting a promise would violate deeply held cultural and political norms.But experienced political players are much too sophisticated to have to stoop to such crude tactics. Rather, a vetting question would be along the lines of: Can you name a few recent Supreme Court opinions that you admire and those with which you disagree, and tell us why? In past years, Republican judge vetters would ask potential nominees to name examples of raw judicial activism. Those who failed to cite Roe v. Wade wouldn't make it to the shortlist.Litmus tests can be problematic, for sure, but let's be intrigued rather than shocked that opposition to Citizens United has emerged as the latest one. During the presidential debates in 2012, neither candidate was asked a single question about the Supreme Court. If a Citizens United litmus test serves only to put the court on the campaign screen, where it urgently belongs, it will have done some good before the first vote is cast.