WASHINGTON -  The issue of climate change played almost no role in the 2012 presidential campaign. President Obama barely mentioned the topic, nor did the Republican nominee, Mitt Romney. It was not raised in a single presidential debate.But as Mr. Obama prepares to leave office, his own aggressive actions on climate change have thrust the issue into the 2016 campaign. Strategists now say that this battle for the White House could feature more substantive debate over global warming policy than any previous presidential race.On Monday, Mr. Obama is expected to unveil his signature climate change policy, a set of Environmental Protection Agency regulations designed to sharply reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the nation's power plants. If the plan survives legal challenges, it could lead to the closing of hundreds of polluting coal-fired power plants, freeze future construction of such plants and lead to an explosion in production of wind and solar energy.Most of those changes, however, would unfold under the next president: states would not submit final plans detailing how they would comply with the rules until 2018. And the plan would not be fully implemented until 2022.That means that the 2016 field faces a much more specific question on climate change policy than any of their predecessors have: What would they do to Mr. Obama's climate change legacy? 'There's no question that the decision of a sitting president on something like this insinuates these issues into the middle of a campaign,' said David Axelrod, the political strategist who advised both of Mr. Obama's presidential campaigns. 'The president is taking a significant step, and now it's a natural question to ask candidates: would they embrace those steps and carry them forward, or would they not? 'The answer to that question is already a litmus test for the deep-pocketed political donors who will play a major role in the 2016 outcome.On the left, the billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer, the largest single donor in the 2014 midterm elections, has made clear that forceful support of climate policies - including implementation of Mr. Obama's plan - is essential to win his financial backing. On the right, the conservative billionaire brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch have made clear that their support will require a candidate's full-throated opposition to Mr. Obama's climate policies.Over the weekend, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is seeking the Democratic nomination, was quick to respond to a preview of the announcement.'The Obama administration's Clean Power Plan is a significant step forward in meeting the urgent threat of climate change,' she said in a written statement. 'It's a good plan, and as president, I'd defend it. It will need defending. Because Republican doubters and defeatists - including every Republican candidate for president - won't offer any credible solution.'Mrs. Clinton has pledged to strengthen and expand on the plan, and to elevate the issue of climate change throughout her campaign, hammering Republicans for their opposition. Mrs. Clinton's campaign chairman is John Podesta, a former senior White House official who was the architect of Mr. Obama's climate policy.Mrs. Clinton's focus on climate change represents a distinct shift from Mr. Obama's re-election strategy in 2012, when his advisers viewed climate change as an issue that did not resonate with voters. Now, however, Mrs. Clinton's advisers are looking at polls showing that a majority of American voters support action on climate change, and the campaign views it as a winning issue, according to Clinton campaign officials.A January poll conducted by The New York Times, Stanford University and Resources for the Future, a nonpartisan research organization, found that two-thirds of Americans said they were more likely to vote for political candidates who campaigned on fighting climate change.Republican candidates for president savaged the new regulations, calling them an example of government overreach and over-regulation and accusing Mr. Obama of conducting a 'war on coal.'Speaking on Sunday at an Orange County, Calif., a gathering of Republican political donors hosted by the Koch brothers, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, explicitly attacked Mr. Obama's plan, designed to encourage states to adopt cap-and-trade programs in which they place a cap on carbon pollution and then create a market for buying permits or credits to pollute. 'It will make the cost of electricity higher, for millions of Americans,' Mr. Rubio said. 'So if there is some billionaire somewhere who is a pro-environmental cap-and-trade person, yeah, they can probably afford for their electric bill to go up a couple hundred dollars. But if you're a single mom in Tampa, Florida, and your electric bill goes up by $30 a month, that is catastrophic.'Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, called the rules 'irresponsible and overreaching' in a statement on Sunday afternoon. 'The rule runs over state governments, will throw countless people out of work, and increases everyone's energy prices,' he said.Senator Ted Cruz of Texas offered a more explicit pledge to block the rules if elected. 'The president's lawless and radical attempt to destabilize the nation's energy system is flatly unconstitutional and - unless it is invalidated by Congress, struck down by the courts, or rescinded by the next administration - will cause Americans' electricity costs to skyrocket at a time when we can least afford it,' he said.While the Republican candidates were united in their opposition to Mr. Obama's plan, none has offered a specific policy proposal to undo it. The E.P.A. put forward the new regulations under the authority of an existing law - the 1970 Clean Air Act. Thus, legal experts said, it may be difficult for the next president to undo the rule entirely, without passing legislation to amend the existing law.The chief challenges to the policy will come in the courts. Already, over a dozen states are preparing to file lawsuits against the plan in disputes that are expected to end up before the Supreme Court, where the justices will have final say over whether the regulations live or die.However, experts said, a new Republican president could simply stop implementing the regulations.'We've had lots of administrations that just stopped rules from previous presidents dead in their tracks - the Reagan administration did that with rules from the Carter administration,' said Jody Freeman, director of Harvard University's environmental law program and a former counselor to Mr. Obama.'They could delay the rule, or withdraw it indefinitely,' she said. 'They'd get sued, but they could drive a delay through a whole first term. It's a rope-a-dope strategy.'