Good Tuesday morning. Lawmakers return from their breaks well rested and ready to pick up the gauntlets from where they had dropped them. With Labor Day behind them, Congress and the presidential candidates have a chance to reassess their battle plans and to gird for the next stage of the fight.Congress returns on Tuesday from its summer break to a potentially tumultuous month, beginning with a fight over the Iran nuclear agreement, despite its predetermined outcome.Democrats have already shown that they have the votes to sustain a veto of any congressional resolution trying to block the nuclear deal, shifting the focus to whether the legislation will even get to President Obama.Over the weekend, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, called on Republicans to agree to a 60-vote threshold for approval of the measure, confident that they can't meet that standard for passage. Republicans might not have 60 votes for passage, but they could possibly assemble the votes to overcome a Democratic filibuster. And Republican officials said that they were not inclined to accept any 'artificial limits' on the Iran process.While they can't halt the agreement, Senate Republicans believe that the politics of the Iran debate play in their favor and that Democratic support of the agreement will haunt lawmakers in 2016 and beyond.'I think it is a big problem for anyone who votes for it,' said Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican and majority leader. 'It is one of those rare issues that we deal with that lives on.'While Iran will take center stage this week, including with a rally on Wednesday featuring the Republican presidential candidates Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, it is not the only pressing issue facing Congress.Lawmakers need to find a way to fund the government after Sept. 30 or face a government shutdown. Republican leaders in the House and Senate would like to avoid a shutdown, but they will have to navigate conservative demands for cutting funding for Planned Parenthood - a position the White House opposes.In addition, Pope Francis will be in Washington at the end of the month for a much-anticipated address, and he is likely to press Congress on climate change, the European migrant crisis and poverty programs.Carl HulseStay tuned throughout the day: Follow us on Twitter @NYTpolitics and on Facebook for First Draft updates.In addition to the return of Congress this week, Democrats will happily embrace the start of a new season in their effort to hold the White House in 2016.Party leaders initially saw the so-called Summer of Trump as a boon for their prospects - the developer and former reality television star's comments on immigrants and women would, in their reasoning, stick like flypaper to the Republican party as a whole, well into the general election.That still may be the case. But instead of making gains this summer, the Democratic Party saw Hillary Rodham Clinton take on water over questions about her use of a private email server while she was secretary of state. The news that the technology expert who set up the server has invoked the Fifth Amendment in response to questions is an unwanted headline for Mrs. Clinton's campaign.Now, Mrs. Clinton will look to reassure her party that she can soldier on. She will give a speech about the Iran deal on Wednesday, an accord Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., a potential late entry into the race, has voiced strong support for. That speech can highlight her value as a team player, and also as someone who, like Mr. Biden, has an understanding of the global stage. Mrs. Clinton's candidacy still lacks a cohesive message that yokes her policy positions together, and the fall season gives her a new chance to find one.- Maggie HabermanMike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, will participate in a rally on Tuesday in support of Kim Davis, the county clerk in Kentucky who was jailed on contempt of court charges for refusing to grant marriage licenses to same-sex couples.Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio will speak about national security at an Americans for Peace, Prosperity and Security forum on Wednesday.And Scott Brown, the former Massachusetts senator who mounted an unsuccessful run for Senate in New Hampshire last year, will host Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey in his Rye, N.H., home on Tuesday night at a meet-and-greet event. Mr. Brown told reporters last month that he had extended invitations to 'just about everyone who is running on the Republican side,' and he hosted Mr. Kasich on Monday.Republicans are growing increasingly concerned that Mr. Trump's inflammatory language could damage the party. They fear that the favorable response he has received from the Republican electorate is luring other candidates to adopt or echo his remarks in ways that could tarnish the party's image among minority voters.Mr. Trump, who received draft deferments through much of the Vietnam War, told the author of a coming biography that he nevertheless 'always felt that I was in the military' because of his education at a military-themed boarding school.As Mr. Biden made his way through a Labor Day parade in Pittsburgh, the crowd repeatedly shouted their hopes that he would seek the Democratic nomination. But the appeals went unanswered, as he responded with words of thanks but no hint of what he might do.And a special intelligence review of two emails that Mrs. Clinton received as secretary of state on her personal account - including one about North Korea's nuclear weapons program - has endorsed a finding by the inspector general for the intelligence agencies that the emails contained highly classified information when Mrs. Clinton received them, senior intelligence officials said.Mrs. Clinton's presidential campaign and the State Department disputed the inspector general's finding last month.Mrs. Clinton, who along with Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont courted union votes in Iowa this weekend, will show more heart and humor, her aides say.Politico writes that if Mr. Biden begins a presidential campaign, he will need the support of the unions. And from many members, 'white, ethnic, from families that have been paying local chapter dues for generations,' he will get it. 'The problem for Biden: There are fewer and fewer of those union workers left.'In an interview with The Associated Press during a Labor Day campaign swing through Iowa, Mrs. Clinton said on Monday that she did not need to apologize for using a private email account and server while at the State Department because 'what I did was allowed.'And, BuzzFeed writes, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida told Boston Herald Radio on Monday that if security concerns could be addressed to filter out terrorists seeking to taking advantage of the migrant crisis in the Middle East and Europe, then the United States should consider taking in some families fleeing the Syrian civil war. 'We've always been a country that's been willing to accept people who have been displaced,' Mr. Rubio said, 'and I would be open to that.'It's Pope Francis versus Mr. Trump when the pontiff comes to the United States this month, Politico says. The pope is expected to urge the country to tackle climate change, immigration reform and income inequality.New polls show Mr. Sanders leading in New Hampshire, which holds the nation's first primary.When Stephen Colbert retired his cheekily conservative persona from Comedy Central, fans feared he might leave the politics behind.Not so much.His CBS debut on Tuesday evening, when Jeb Bush will appear as a guest, is pocked with political intrigue.For Mr. Bush - eager to resist the 'low energy' label supplied by Mr. Trump - the appearance offers a chance to brandish his wit and policy chops before a wide audience. Mr. Colbert, meanwhile, seems intent on showing the audience that he remains a force of political comedy.Already, the comedian has engaged Mr. Bush in a social media tussle over the propriety of a fund-raising raffle tied to the show.Last month, Mr. Bush had encouraged supporters to donate $3 for a chance to attend the taping. 'If you can't afford $3,' Mr. Colbert later said, 'you're probably not voting for Jeb Bush.'The campaign did not tell Mr. Colbert about the plan, he said. So he hatched a counterraffle, allowing the winner to propose a question to ask Mr. Bush. Mr. Colbert's suggestion: 'Don't you wish you'd consulted Stephen before launching your contest?'In a video response, Mr. Bush said he would enter Mr. Colbert's contest with a charitable donation and lower the entry fee for his own.'I thought the host was Amy Schumer. I totally blew it,' Mr. Bush said in the video. 'But since it's you, we're lowering our contest fee to $1.'- Matt Flegenheimer