DUBUQUE, Iowa -  As 1,800 mad-as-hell supporters jumped out of their seats and pumped their fists last Sunday, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont delivered the message they had come to hear.We will 'give these guys an offer they can't refuse,' he shouted in the jam-packed gym, vowing to bust up the banks, bring down the billionaire class and smash the political establishment.'So I welcome you all,' he said, 'to the political revolution of 2015.'The presidential election is, of course, in 2016, but Mr. Sanders can be forgiven for living in the moment. By overtaking Hillary Rodham Clinton in New Hampshire in some polls and drawing tens of thousands of people to his events on the West Coast, as well as thousands in Iowa and Nevada, Mr. Sanders, 73, has recaptured the enthusiasm that fueled the 2008 Obama campaign, with T-shirts that say 'Feel the Bern' and show an image of floppy white hair and glasses replacing the famous image in the Obama 'Hope' poster by Shepard Fairey.Unlike that of Mr. Obama, Mr. Sanders's appeal is less about oratorical lift and finding common ground than about the opportunity his campaign gives disaffected Democrats to vent their anger at the list of national ills they believe are caused by big business and its conservative allies and have been left unaddressed by President Obama. If Mrs. Clinton's pitch to voters is that she can make the system more effective, Mr. Sanders is arguing that Mr. Obama was naïve to even bother with a system that needs to be fundamentally changed.It is not a new message for Mr. Sanders, who came up in radical left politics, but the response is something unfamiliar. For someone who has always had a sweepingly macro, if not entirely Marxist, critique of America, having the largest crowds of the election cheering each description of income inequality, and each proposal to eradicate it, amounts to the validation of a career spent in relative obscurity. Mr. Sanders's grumpy demeanor, his outsider status and his suspicion of all things 'feel good,' are part of the attraction.'He's feeling the weight of 'Wow, people really need this,''' Jane Sanders said after one of the seven appearances her husband made last weekend in Iowa. She said Mr. Sanders was 'humbled' by the success, remained as focused on the issues as ever, and 'doesn't believe in the cult of personality.'Yet when asked why Mr. Sanders was attracting so many people, she added: 'Because if not now, when? And if not him, who?'Anybody else appears to be the answer of the Democratic establishment.Yet while the candidate's own staff sees the immense challenges before them with a professional eye, Mr. Sanders admits to no doubts. And he treats any trespassers to his circle of believers accordingly.When a gaggle of reporters - 'corporate media' in Sanders parlance - mentioned Mrs. Clinton here, he snarled, 'That's the sport you guys like,' meaning their focus on the kind of political questions he disdains. When asked to reconcile his anti-establishment status with being a 'career politician,' Mr. Sanders, who except for two years has held political office continually since 1981, glared at the young reporter who asked the question.'Career politician?' he said to her with a disdainful laugh. 'Other questions.'Mr. Sanders is clearly a different sort of political animal. If the tradition is to campaign in poetry and govern in prose, Mr. Sanders does both with a long list of bullet points written on a yellow legal pad he looks at when he speaks.'We're going to practice democracy. How's that?' he exclaimed to huge applause at the start of the Dubuque event, before launching into an hourlong speech that left no time for questions.In front of crowds, Mr. Sanders dispenses with his biography as quickly as possible, introducing his wife, who waves back or shoots video on her iPhone, and mentioning that he has kids and grandkids and a father who immigrated to America from Poland with nothing. He seems to go through the motions of reaching for the emotional connection that other candidates try to seize, referring to the joy of childbirth as 'extraordinary, unbelievable, O.K.,' before quickly shifting to the dearth of family leave time for working women.But the people don't come to hear Mr. Sanders's story. They come for his analysis of what's gone wrong.Americans, Mr. Sanders says, live under an oligarchy of billionaires, the Koch brothers and Walmart owners and Wall Street chieftains who conspire to keep the workingman down. Their information is dumbed down by a news media that avoids the issues, treats campaigns like soap operas and begs him to 'beat up on Hillary Clinton.'In Iowa, where he is inching up in polls, the crowds nodded passionately as he cited the real unemployment level and bemoaned institutional racism and the 'starvation wages' hobbling American workers already handicapped by international trade deals. There were also mentions of Republican attempts at voter suppression, which 'profoundly disgusts me,' the increased oceanic acidity and rising temperatures that threatened the globe, as well as the pharmaceutical companies and enemies of Social Security who prey on the sick and elderly.'What's wrong with that picture?' he asked at another Iowa appearance, and then proceeded to describe what life would be like 'under a Sanders administration.'He would invest in enormous infrastructure projects that he said would create more than 10 million jobs. He would expand, not shrink, Social Security, and move the United States to a single payer health care system. Legislation that he intends to propose or already has would automatically register anyone older than 18 to vote, kick private corporations out of the prison business, make public college tuition free, guarantee sick and paid family leave and a 'couple of weeks paid vacation' to workers.He would break up the banks that are too big to fail, keep us out of any more wars and pay for much of his spending program with a tax on Wall Street trading.'The middle class and working class bailed you out,' he bellowed. 'Now it's your turn.'As for the critique that none of these proposals is remotely plausible given the political realities in Washington, the Sanders campaign argues that the 'nightmare scenario' of a Democratic president with a Republican Congress would never happen.'It is an unlikely outcome to have Bernie Sanders elected president and to keep the Congress in its current composition,' said Jeff Weaver, his campaign manager, explaining a sort of fantasy scenario.Or, as Mr. Sanders put it at a labor meeting in Clinton, Iowa: Without a revolution, 'Forget about it, nothing's going to happen.'And that, he says, was the problem with Mr. Obama. While Mr. Sanders offered 'congratulations' to Iowa for having the courage to vote for an African-American in 2008, he said 'one of his mistakes' that Mr. Obama made after winning with a movement behind him was then saying, 'I'll take it from here.''What Obama should have known and what I know,' Mr. Sanders said, is that wealthy vested interests were too powerful for any one person to take on.It was around then that Fred Bowes, a 77-year-old Democrat, walked out of an event in Boone.'Everything he said is true,' Mr. Bowes said. 'Implementing what he says is next to impossible.'That is a dissenting view among the crowds at Mr. Sanders's rallies and events, where he welcomes gushing comparisons to Franklin Delano Roosevelt.'Bernie, Bernie, Bernie,' the crowd of Sanders supporters chanted as the senator approached the entrance of Iowa State Fair. As Mr. Sanders made his way toward the fair's famous Soapbox Stage, Mitchell Wear, who had come from Columbus to hear Mr. Sanders speak, was able to shake his hand.'Oh my God, that was awesome,' Mr. Wear said as the entourage made its way past pork chop, caprese-on-a-stick and fried cheese curd stands.Back in Burlington after the weekend, Mr. Sanders called his close friend Richard Sugarman, a University of Vermont professor of Jewish philosophy and self-described 'biblical socialist.'Mr. Sugarman said he grilled the candidate on whether he had eaten a pork chop 'I didn't,' Mr. Sanders, who is also Jewish, assured him, listened to Mr. Sanders confide that 'This celebrity stuff is strange,' and discussed 'how far he's come.''His enthusiasm is growing' Mr. Sugarman said, because 'people are responsive to what he is saying in a larger venue than has ever been the case before, and probably because they agree with him.'