During a briefing with donors to the 'super PAC' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton, her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race, but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada, an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA, the campaign chairman John Podesta, when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President, said he spoke with Mr. Biden's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier, according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November, although he didn't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility. Mr. Podesta, who worked in the White House until earlier this year, has close ties to many officials there, and Mr. Ricchetti was his deputy when he was chief of staff to President Bill Clinton. Mr. Podesta suggested that the Clinton campaign has a strong operation in Nevada, a caucus state just after Iowa and New Hampshire, and he questioned whether Mr. Biden would be able to build a strong organization at this late date, the attendee said.The remarks were made at a hotel in Midtown Manhattan, where Mr. Podesta briefed donors, or their advisers. Of the roughly 10 people there, almost everyone has already pledged money or written a check to the Clinton 'super PAC.' Some of those donors may again be tapped to write checks.The people in the room had concerns about the current course of the campaign, people briefed on what happened said, asking for anonymity in order to describe private conversations.Aides to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Biden declined comment.But Mr. Podesta acknowledged the campaign has had challenges. He also described the team's organizational strength in Iowa.There were few questions about Mrs. Clinton's email, the attendee said.Mr. Podesta has just begun giving time to the 'super PAC', which is attempting to raise hundreds of millions of dollars in a climate in which Democrats tend to look less favorably on donating to such outside groups. Some of Mrs. Clinton supporters have also not felt any urgency about donating, having not perceived the campaign as particularly close until recently and with the Republican field diffuse and unsettled.I can't wait much longer and I am putting the White House on notice.'- Hillary Rodham Clinton, seeming exhausted at the end of a long day of campaigning in New Hampshire, responding to a voter who asked about the Keystone XL pipeline project 'My favorite topic!' she said, which she has previously declined to take a position on until the Obama administration decided whether to back it.Senator Bernie Sanders has raised more than $1 million in small-dollar campaign contributions off two email solicitations that highlighted an attack from allies of Hillary Rodham Clinton, a campaign official said Thursday. Mr. Sanders and his campaign manager, Jeff Weaver, sent the emails after Correct the Record, a 'super PAC' that is coordinating with Mrs. Clinton's campaign, sent a document criticizing the senator's record to a reporter at the Huffington Post.'Yesterday, one of Hillary Clinton's most prominent super PACs attacked our campaign pretty viciously,' the email from Mr. Sanders said. 'They suggested I'd be friendly with Middle East terrorist organizations, and even tried to link me to a dead communist dictator.''They'll keep trying,' Mr. Sanders added, 'unless we make them pay a price for their attacks.' Mr. Weaver sent a similar email. The amount of money raised is impressive, coming in increments of less than $10 generally, said the campaign official, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the fund raising. DENVER - When Colorado voters cast their ballots in November 2012, a proposal to legalize recreational marijuana won by a larger margin than President Obama achieved in winning the state. Since then, it has become one of the hottest political and social issues in this swing state, becoming a new source of jobs and millions in tax dollars, but bringing along with it worries about stoned drivers and teenagers' abusing the drug. So when Martin O'Malley, the Democratic presidential hopeful and former Maryland governor, swung through Colorado on Thursday, he sat down for a marijuana round table to discuss Colorado's experiment with legalization. How did Colorado keep it from flowing into other states? Was the use among teenagers rising? How many tax dollars was the state collecting? How many scofflaw marijuana businesses had the state shut down? 'You didn't see everyone showing up three hours late for work every morning?' he asked, joking. Mr. O'Malley spoke to marijuana activists and state regulators in the offices of a marijuana-focused law firm just south of the state Capitol. He sat beneath a black-and-white photograph of a marquee declaring 'Yes on 64,' shorthand for the constitutional amendment that legalized marijuana sales and use by adults 21 and over. Those in the cannabis industry talked about the challenges of running all-cash businesses. Government officials described how they had created regulations for a brand-new market. Several people mentioned the exploding popularity of edible marijuana. 'Like Maureen Dowd,' Mr. O'Malley said, referring to the New York Times columnist's magical mystery tour with a pot-infused chocolate. A young veteran described how marijuana had helped him and other vets overcome dangerous dependencies on opioid painkillers. As governor, Mr. O'Malley signed laws decriminalizing possession of small amounts of marijuana and setting up a medical-marijuana program more than 20 states now have some form of medical marijuana. He said he supported removing marijuana from the federal government's roster of Schedule I controlled substances, a federal classification that puts it in the same category as heroin, and rescheduling it as a drug that has some medical use but also a high potential for abuse. He did not endorse outright legalization. 'I'm not there yet,' he said. Hedieh Ghaffarian, an Iranian-born immigrant who was raised in California and built a successful floral design business, will become the next chief White House florist, the office of the first lady, Michelle Obama, announced on Thursday.Ms. Ghaffarian, who uses the nickname Roshan, will be at the White House for next week's state dinner for President Xi Jinping of China, but officials said she would officially start in the East Wing in mid-October.'Roshan's life story is a powerful reminder that the American dream endures,' Mrs. Obama said in a statement, 'and the president and I look forward to seeing her creativity flourish for White House guests to enjoy year-round.'The previous florist, Laura Dowling, who had been in the position since Mr. Obama became president in 2009, abruptly departed in March. The White House eventually issued a statement praising Ms. Dowling's work, calling it 'always lively and colorful' and saying it reflected 'not only the season but the unique and historic rooms which they graced.'But several news organizations reported that Ms. Dowling had been escorted off the grounds, and people close to the situation reported clashes between Ms. Dowling and others inside the White House residence, where the florist works. Ms. Dowling said in a statement that she was moving on to pursue other opportunities.In a statement issued by the White House on Thursday, Ms. Ghaffarian said she was 'humbled' and would 'dedicate myself to advancing the tradition of excellence and elegance in the White House.'The White House said Thursday that it was expecting 15,000 people to gather on its South Lawn and the nearby grassy Ellipse to greet Pope Francis next week at an official welcoming ceremony with President Obama.'Traffic's going to be a mess,' said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, who provided the estimate at his daily briefing with reporters.Mr. Earnest noted that the Office of Personnel Management had issued guidance to federal agencies urging them to allow employees to telecommute during the pope's three-day visit to Washington, which starts on Tuesday. 'Due to the increase in traffic, road closures, significant detours, crowded trains and buses, longer wait times at stops and stations, and related commuting disruptions on these days,' the agency said in a memo, those who work in the Washington metropolitan area 'should expect significant commuting delays and travel disruptions.'Parents throughout Washington also received notice from the District of Columbia on Thursday suggesting that they plan their children's routes to school with the papal visit in mind.District transit will be operating on its regular schedule, wrote Kaya Henderson, the schools chancellor, 'but you should expect a number of detours and some service adjustments to accommodate road closures and increased customer usage.'She said the mayor had started a website to serve as 'your one-stop destination for information on the papal visit.'Carly Fiorina set off some fact-check alarm bells on Wednesday when she dared Hillary Rodham Clinton and President Obama to watch undercover Planned Parenthood videos that show dead fetuses. While the authenticity of the videos remains a subject of debate, Mrs. Fiorina appears to have exaggerated their contents.'Watch a fully formed fetus on the table, its heart beating, its legs kicking while someone says we have to keep it alive to harvest its brain,' she said.The video that Mrs. Fiorina seems to be referring'to does show a still'image of a fetus being held outside of the womb. But it is not seen squirming as Mrs. Fiorina describes. In'fact, it shows Holly O'Donnell, an 'ex-procurement technician' for StemExpress, describing a scene in which another technician calls her over to see a mostly gestated fetus that has a beating heart. There is no indication that the fetus pictured is about to have its brain removed, as the video implies.StemExpress is a company that worked with Planned Parenthood to acquire fetal tissue for medical research. It severed ties with Planned Parenthood last month as the controversy over the videos intensified.The videos Mrs. Fiorina referred to is among thousands of hours of footage that an anti-abortion group has collected as part of an investigation into Planned Parenthood. The group claims that Planned Parenthood's clinics are selling tissue from aborted fetuses for profit, a charge Planned Parenthood denies. The videos have galvanized Republicans who oppose abortion and have made defunding Planned Parenthood a rallying cry in Congress and on the presidential campaign trail.'I'm sitting there and I'm looking at this fetus and its heart is beating, and I don't know what to think,' Ms. O'Donnell says in the video, as a picture of a fetus flashes across the screen.Ms. O'Donnell later seems to suggest that the fetus is responding to electrical stimulus and that she is unsure if it is actually conscious.'I know why it was happening, because an electrical current in its nodes were still firing,' Ms. O'Donnell said. 'And I don't know if that constitutes it's technically dead, or it's alive.'Factcheck.org found that the scene that Mrs. Fiorina urges others to watch is not present in any of the Planned Parenthood videos, and Politifact called her statement 'mostly false.'Mrs. Fiorina's campaign did not respond when asked to explain exactly what she was referring to in the debate.Some critics on Twitter suggested that while Mrs. Fiorina was trying to solidify her anti-abortion credentials, a true anti-abortion campaigner would have used the word 'baby' rather than fetus when describing the imagery.Nearly 23 million viewers tuned in to CNN to view the Republican presidential debate on Wednesday, as interest in the increasingly raucous nominating contest shows no signs of abating.CNN's television audience for the three-hour prime-time debate averaged 22.9 million people, the strongest draw in the network's history for an event, according to Nielsen data. The viewership was slightly less than the 24 million that Fox News garnered for the first Republican debate last month and helped demonstrate the widespread interest in the 2016 election, which has been infused with feisty barbs and reality TV star power thanks to the emergence of Donald J. Trump.Previously, CNN's highest-rated primary debate was the California Democratic debate in January 2008, when an average of 8.3 million viewers tuned in for the event. A 'Larry King Live' special featuring H. Ross Perot and Al Gore drew 16.8 million total viewers in 1993 and was the network's most watched program before Wednesday's debate.CNN's earlier debate on Wednesday, which featured four candidates who performed in the lower tier in the polls, drew an average of 6.3 million viewers, topping Fox's undercard debate that drew 6.1 million.Unlike Fox, CNN allowed the debates to be streamed freely on its website and mobile platforms. It had 921,000 streams being viewed at one time, when usage peaked at 9:45 p.m.For much of the year, Jeb Bush has sent conflicting signals about how he planned to deal with the legacy of his brother, former President George W. Bush - reaching for it in some cases, distancing himself in others.But on Thursday, the day after the second Republican presidential debate, in which he strongly defended his brother against Donald J. Trump, Mr. Bush highlighted that moment on his Twitter feed.Around noon, Mr. Bush sent out this remark, 'When it comes to my brother, there's one thing I know for sure. He kept us safe.' That quotation was next to a photo of a memorable moment - his brother standing next to a New York City firefighter atop the rubble of the destroyed World Trade Center towers in Lower Manhattan days after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The moment during the debate when Jeb Bush defended his brother, whose foreign policy record has repeatedly been criticized by some of the Republicans running for president, was widely seen as one of his strongest of the night. In his Twitter post, he made no mention of the terrorist attacks, the worst ever on United States soil, which took place during his brother's first term in office.As the campaign has gone on, Mr. Bush's allies have felt he has been in something of a no-win situation with his brother. Mr. Bush has said he is his own man, as some critics have sought to tether him to his brother's legacy, but Mr. Bush has also made clear in several speeches his love for the former president. While Mr. Bush is struggling in polls in the early states and nationally, his brother remains highly popular with Republican primary voters in Iowa and South Carolina, and embracing him could be helpful. During Wednesday's Republican presidential debate, Donald J. Trump said that he believes vaccines can cause autism in children.But decades of evidence disputes this notion. There are no credible studies demonstrating any such link. For example, just read one recent paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.The two physicians in the debate, Ben Carson and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, argued that while science connecting vaccines and autism is lacking, spreading out the childhood vaccination schedule might be advisable.But that's a position strongly opposed by the medical community - because there is no link between autism and vaccination, spacing vaccines will not reduce the risk of a child developing autism.But because many parents ask for such delayed schedules, doctors often accommodate such demands, putting children at risk of catching diseases before they are vaccinated or potentially failing to complete their recommended vaccines.Failing to vaccinate children has clear health risks. A recent outbreak of measles was aided considerably by unvaccinated people who were able to spread the disease.Good Thursday morning. Fifteen Republicans gathered in two debates on Wednesday, with the four lowest-polling candidates engaging in the so-called undercard debate, where foreign policy and exasperation at Donald J. Trump dominated the discussion, and with the remaining 11 fighting to be heard, to stand out next to Mr. Trump, and to distinguish themselves. A few of them did just that. Clarity? What Clarity? After they spent nearly 180 minutes debating one another at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif., there were two clear winners in the sprawling Republican primary field. Carly Fiorina and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida delivered their best performances by far. Mrs. Fiorina made the most of every question she was asked, and she seized the floor even when it wasn't her turn. Mr. Rubio consistently answered foreign policy questions with ease.Mr. Trump, whose performance had been eagerly anticipated, seemed to almost disappear from view at times. That may have been intentional, since Mr. Trump telegraphed early on that he was not sure-footed on one of the main topics of the evening, national security. While he may not lose his supporters, he did not show he had the ability to grow.  Former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida endured a painful first hour in which Mr. Trump seemed to get the better of him. He demanded, without success, that Mr. Trump apologize for mentioning his wife, who is from Mexico, in his caustic comments on immigration. But Mr. Bush recovered in the third block of the debate, delivering a strong response about his brother's stewardship of the nation without mentioning the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and, in a humanizing moment, acknowledged smoking marijuana in his youth, saying his mother was displeased that he was talking about it.A few of the others had some highlights, too. Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio sounded a measured tone on the Iran nuclear deal that most Republicans loathe, but at other points looked angry, even when he was in a split-screen shot. And Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey did well in the final hour, other than an off-note when he silenced Mrs. Fiorina.Ben Carson, who rose in the polls after the Fox News debate last month, had some strong moments, but a tortured response on his view about the decision to go to war with Iraq didn't help his case.As for the rest, they mostly faded into the shadows of Mr. Reagan's Air Force One plane behind them.  - Maggie HabermanWhat We're Watching Today – Janet L. Yellen, the Federal Reserve chairwoman, faces a crucial moment when the Fed's policy-making committee announces whether the time has come to start raising interest rates.– Democratic congressional leaders will head to the White House to discuss budget strategy in preparation for the fiscal deadline in less than two weeks, while others will urge Republican leaders to support the closing of some tax loopholes, a move that Mr. Trump and other candidates have backed. – And President Obama will meet with the three Americans, including two service members, who helped thwart a gunman's attack last month on a Paris-bound train. No Clear Winner Among the Lower FourUnlike in the first Republican presidential debate, the shrinking field of 'undercard' candidates was without a true standout performer on Wednesday night.In an election cycle where political outsiders are in style, the contest featured four career politicians - all of whom either are or have been governors or senators. With such résumés, the case for being able to shake up Washington was hard to make.For George E. Pataki, the former governor of New York, the debate was a rare moment in the spotlight to share his moderate conservative message. Rick Santorum, the former Pennsylvania senator, who has been canvassing Iowa in hopes of recreating his connection with caucusgoers there, tried nonetheless to paint himself as an outsider who could bring change to Washington.The winner was most likely a draw between Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. Mr. Jindal continued to hammer away at Mr. Trump while attempting to lay claim to the mantle of being the most conservative candidate. Mr. Graham mixed his usual blend of doomsday predictions on foreign affairs with political pragmatism domestically.Known for his wry sense of humor, Mr. Graham may have made the most popular proposal of the night when recalling how former President Ronald Reagan and Tip O'Neill, then the Democratic House speaker, used to find common ground over drinks.'That's the first thing I'm going to do as president,' said Mr. Graham, whose family owned a bar in South Carolina. 'We're going to drink more.'- Alan Rappeport Democrats Opposed to Iran Deal Hold the Party Line By forcing repeated procedural votes on the Iran nuclear deal, Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican and majority leader, was hoping to change some Democratic votes. The strategy appears to have worked but perhaps not in the way Mr. McConnell intended.At least two Democratic senators who have been voting with Mr. McConnell against the Iran deal - Chuck Schumer of New York and Benjamin Cardin of Maryland - informed their colleagues on Wednesday that while they still opposed the Iran deal, they would not join with Mr. McConnell on Thursday in his effort to bring up a politically charged amendment.The reversal by Mr. Schumer and Mr. Cardin showed that rather than breaking, Democrats are becoming more united in their opposition to Mr. McConnell's tactics, which they decry as overtly political and a waste of time.'No one is hiding their position,' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat. 'We know where we stand. It's time to move on.'While Mr. McConnell's efforts will fall short again, he will have succeeded in making Democrats vote against requiring Iran to recognize Israel and to free American prisoners - a vote that could surface in a later political campaign. - Carl Hulse Our Other Favorites From The Times – Ahmed Mohamed's homemade alarm clock got him suspended from his suburban high school in Irving, Tex., and led to him being detained and handcuffed by police officers on Monday after school officials accused him of making a fake bomb. By Wednesday, it had brought him an invitation to the White House, and support from Hillary Rodham Clinton as questions arose about whether he had been targeted because of his name and his religion.– The White House reported on Wednesday that the number of people without health insurance dropped last year by 8.8 million, to a total of about 33 million, but that income remained stagnant and poverty rates stayed the same.– And Mrs. Clinton appeared on the 'Tonight Show With Jimmy Fallon,' taking a phone call from Mr. Trump, as portrayed by Mr. Fallon wearing a blonde wig. What We're Reading Elsewhere – NPR says that a passage near the end of a recent speech by Mr. Trump reveals a lot about his success in the polls. 'It's the message that's breaking through, delivered in a way only Donald Trump can deliver it,' NPR writes, and  'Trump's supporters aren't with him because they want to hear the wonky details. They want someone to channel what they feel.'–  Before the debate, there were several looks ahead to what might happen. Politico painted Mr. Bush's situation as dire, and The Atlantic said that the undercard debate might even be the more interesting forum. – And checking in on the Democrats, Time says the party is 'playing a dangerous game,' by scheduling only six debates, a schedule that former Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland has been criticizing for a while. As the Republicans prepared to take the stage in Simi Valley, Calif., for their second presidential debate, Hillary Rodham Clinton took the stage in New York to tape the 'Tonight Show With Jimmy Fallon.'Mrs. Clinton took a phone call from Donald J. Trump, as portrayed by Mr. Fallon wearing a blonde wig and an aggressive orange tan. 'I've spent my entire career fighting for women's rights,' Mrs. Clinton explained. 'I'm really curious, Donald, what is your stance on women's issues?''Look, I know a lot of women…and they all have issues,' Mr. Fallon's Trump replied. He also gave Mrs. Clinton, whose poll numbers have taken a hit lately, some candid campaign advice. 'You sound like a robot,' he said, raising his feigned New York accent. 'You want to win, here's what you have to do, yell!'Mrs. Clinton, wearing a hot pink tunic, nodded as if to write Mr. Trump's advice down and instead grabbed a goblet of white wine and took a swig.The interview is part of a September blitz of national television appearances by Mrs. Clinton. Last week, she sat down with NBC News, ABC News and chatted with a 5-year-old presidential historian on the 'Ellen DeGeneres Show.'On Thursday, Mrs. Clinton planned to take a break from campaigning in New Hampshire to speak to CNN's Wolf Blitzer. She'll share her reactions to the Republican debate. Hint: She'll say they're all out of touch and bad for the country.In an interview with Mr. Fallon, who had shed his Trump costume after the opening, Mrs. Clinton thanked the house band, The Roots. 'I've got to thank Roots,' she said. 'I love Roots.'Mr. Fallon brought up Mr. Trump a lot in the interview, including asking why Mrs. Clinton relies so heavily on a teleprompter rather than speaking off the cuff. 'I learned that by watching how successful President Obama was' using a teleprompter, she said. 'I could go more stream of consciousness, you know, this is a huge election,' Mrs. Clinton said using Mr. Trump's favorite adjective.The late-night host had an easy rapport with Mrs. Clinton with none of the tension apparent in her news interviews. Mr. Fallon praised Mrs. Clinton's toughness, comparing her to a popular UFC fighter, 'if Ronda Rousey shopped at Ann Taylor.'At one point, Mr. Fallon sheepishly asked, 'Can I just talk about the email scandal?''Sure!' Mrs. Clinton exclaimed and described how most of her private emails at the State Department were dullsville.She told Mr. Fallon about posing for a selfie with Kim Kardashian and Kanye West at a fund-raiser in Los Angeles last month. 'They were just delightful,' Mrs. Clinton said. 'She's a pro at this selfie deal.'