The calls have come in a steady stream: from political donors, community leaders and members of the clergy, urging Representative Hakeem Jeffries to consider running against Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York.The latest, high-profile overture to Mr. Jeffries came from William C. Thompson Jr., a former city comptroller who in 2013 was the runner-up for the Democratic mayoral nomination. Mr. Thompson recently told Mr. Jeffries that he viewed the congressman as the strongest black candidate who could run against the mayor in 2017 - and one of only two Democrats, along with Scott M. Stringer, the current comptroller, able to mount a real challenge to Mr. de Blasio.As he has done with all other suitors so far, Mr. Jeffries, 45, demurred. But the continuing interest in the congressman's future signaled his emerging role in New York politics, as a powerful magnet for the mayor's opponents and possibly - if Mr. Jeffries changes his mind - a genuine threat to Mr. de Blasio's re-election.In Washington, Mr. Jeffries, a second-term congressman from Brooklyn, is best known as a collegial, next-generation Democrat with a keen interest in criminal justice reform. In New York, however, he has positioned himself at a nexus of powerful interests that have grown frustrated during Mr. de Blasio's tenure, and are increasingly determined to recruit a formidable challenger in 2017.Where Mr. de Blasio has opposed charter schools, Mr. Jeffries has firmly defended them; in April, he addressed a fund-raising gala for the Success Academy organization, a fast-growing charter network heavily backed by wealthy critics of the mayor. When Mr. de Blasio sought to limit expansion of the ride-hailing company Uber, Mr. Jeffries spoke out against City Hall. Striking from the left, he has accused the mayor of not 'living up to the promises he made' to overhaul policing.Perhaps most important, Mr. Jeffries has enjoyed a conspicuously warm relationship with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, with whom Mr. de Blasio has carried on an acid feud. Only days after Mr. de Blasio publicly accused Mr. Cuomo of governing through brute political force, Mr. Jeffries appeared at a July event with the governor announcing the appointment of a special prosecutor in cases of killings by the police.Mr. Cuomo is expected to headline a fund-raising event for Mr. Jeffries's congressional campaign this fall, according to one Democrat who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the details of the event are still in flux.In an interview, Mr. Jeffries called the mayor's clash with Mr. Cuomo a reckless mistake, given the broad power governors hold over city affairs.'It shocked me when the mayor decided to go after Governor Cuomo in such a highly personal way,' he said. 'With each week, it appears to be even more of a miscalculation.'Mr. Jeffries acknowledged fielding a flood of suggestions that he mount a mayoral run, and attributed it to 'growing disenchantment with City Hall.' He noted that Mr. de Blasio's popularity has fallen among black New Yorkers, and said he believed it would be healthy for the city if Mr. de Blasio had a re-election fight.Though Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Stringer are most often discussed as potential opponents for the mayor in a Democratic primary, there is a longer list of possible challengers, including Ruben Diaz Jr., the Bronx borough president; Eric L. Adams, the Brooklyn borough president; Letitia James, the public advocate; and Melissa Mark-Viverito, the City Council speaker.'Democracy is always healthier whenever there's a robust challenge and a battle of ideas,' Mr. Jeffries said, adding, 'He should not get a free pass, but whether that means a Democratic primary challenge or a real race in the general election is something that's above my pay grade.'Yet Mr. Jeffries also expressed, in unwavering terms, his own preference to remain in Congress. Speaking with obvious excitement, he said he believed there was a real chance to address what he called the 'overcriminalization of America,' thanks to unexpected support from Republicans for criminal justice reform. He has co-sponsored legislation to overhaul mandatory minimums for certain drug crimes, and has introduced a bill banning the use of chokeholds by the police.'I'm hopeful,' he said. 'I'm optimistic. I think we will get something done.'In Congress, Mr. Jeffries's forceful advocacy has drawn the notice of party leaders, and colleagues in the New York delegation say he has a promising future in the House. He flew on Air Force One with President Obama in late August, en route to a ceremony for the anniversary of Hurricane Katrina. In a move that angered some of his financial backers, Mr. Jeffries endorsed the president's contested nuclear deal with Iran a few days later.An aging generation of black Democratic leaders is expected to retire in the next half-decade; Mr. Jeffries is well positioned to be among those who step up in their place.Representative Charles B. Rangel, the long-serving Harlem Democrat, suggested that Mr. Jeffries might be safest pursuing his ambitions in the House. Mr. Rangel praised the younger lawmaker for his work on police reform, but questioned whether Mr. Jeffries could be a viable candidate for mayor as early as 2017.'He's an outstanding member of Congress, very thoughtful and respected,' said Mr. Rangel, who is retiring at the end of 2016. 'His base is in the Congress and it should be that, unless there's another opportunity.'Still, in New York, critics of Mr. de Blasio see Mr. Jeffries as perhaps the one candidate able to win support from both black voters and wealthy white political donors. He is a former white-shoe corporate lawyer and also a longtime critic of aggressive policing, practiced at wooing rank-and-file Democrats and city elites at the same time.A vocal supporter of Israel, Mr. Jeffries has attracted significant funding from national Jewish donors over the years, though his support for the Iran deal could be an obstacle in the future.'Everybody sees him as a very strong candidate,' Mr. Thompson said in an interview. Though he said it was too early to endorse a candidate for 2017, Mr. Thompson said, 'Hakeem's been able to project out of Brooklyn and out of his congressional district.'If certain of Mr. Jeffries's admirers see him as a mayor in the making, other influential Democrats see a campaign in 2017 as a dangerous gamble. Mr. Jeffries would not have to give up his seat in Congress to run, but a divisive Democratic primary battle could imperil the good will he has built up in the party, and undermine the congressman's glide path in Washington.With the buzz surrounding Mr. Jeffries's aspirations approaching a fever pitch, the Rev. Al Sharpton, one of the mayor's most influential supporters, offered the congressman some sober advice in a huddle earlier this summer, on the sidelines of a rally for Mr. Sharpton's National Action Network.According to people familiar with the conversation, who spoke about a private meeting on the condition of anonymity, Mr. Sharpton emphasized that driving an incumbent out of City Hall is never easy - even for a young, charming and well-financed politician like Mr. Jeffries. The congressman told Mr. Sharpton that he was truly not interested in running.Barring total catastrophe, Mr. de Blasio could almost certainly count on muscular support from labor unions and county Democratic organizations that drive turnout in primary elections. Mr. Jeffries could face attacks on certain positions, such as his enthusiasm for charter schools, that might be less popular in a citywide Democratic primary than with political donors who support education reform.Mr. de Blasio has been publicly defiant about the prospect of a challenge. During a news conference in August, he invited opponents to measure their 'record of achievement on behalf of the people of this city' against his.'Come one, come all,' he said.Mr. Jeffries said his chief political priority over the next year was helping to raise money for Democratic candidates running for the House and Senate, not meddling in city affairs.The New York congressional delegation has already gained clout on Capitol Hill, Mr. Jeffries said, and would attain more sway with Democrats in control of one or both chambers of Congress.Mr. Jeffries said, however, that he would not be shy about criticizing Mr. de Blasio when he considered it appropriate.'He's a progressive Democratic mayor for the first time in 20 years, and I want him to be successful,' Mr. Jeffries said. Confrontation with the mayor, he said, is 'not something I actively seek.''But,' Mr. Jeffries added, 'I embrace the challenge when it presents itself.'