Scott Walker's rapid but unsurprising rise to the top of the Republican pack was perhaps the clearest example during the first half of the primary season of the importance of fundamentals: factors that shape the outcome of the race from the very start, like the amount of support from party elites and the potential to build a broad coalition. His ability to appeal to conservatives - thanks to his high-profile fight against organized labor in Wisconsin - without alienating the rest of the party instantly made him a formidable contender.But the next part of the primary season may offer a very different lesson. In the end, it may underscore that fundamentals are not enough: Candidates must run strong campaigns to take advantage of a good starting position.Mr. Walker, who today formally announced his candidacy for the presidency, enters the race in an enviable position. But he will need to perform well in the debates, on the trail, in interviews and in his dealings with donors and officials to persuade voters and party elites that he can survive a national election. Whether he will do so is perhaps the biggest question of the race, in part because his performance to date has provided so many reasons to doubt he can do it.Nowhere are Mr. Walker's advantages more obvious than in Iowa, where he holds a persistent lead in early polls. He holds an average of 18 percent of the vote in recent surveys, a modest figure by historical standards but nonetheless an impressive one given the size of the field. Equally impressive is the consistency of his advantage: He has led eight consecutive polls there and 11 of the last 12 dating to early February.Mr. Walker's early strength in Iowa is a reflection of his strong pitch to the conservative and evangelical voters who dominate the caucuses. Mr. Walker, an evangelical Christian and governor of a neighboring state, became a conservative hero when he prevailed over public employee unions in a high-profile battle over collective bargaining rights. He then survived a recall election in a state that has voted for Democrats in seven consecutive presidential elections and also won re-election to a second term.But unlike most favorites of conservatives, Mr. Walker has the résumé and temperament of a candidate who could appeal broadly throughout the party, including to the party's establishment. He has not become a conservative favorite by adopting extreme positions or language. His defining issue - fighting public employee unions - is as important to the business-establishment wing of the party as it is to the religious right or the Tea Party. Polls show that a very small share of Republican voters say they could not support Mr. Walker, and he has strong ties to Republican elites, like the Koch brothers.The combination of Mr. Walker's advantage in Iowa, his broad acceptability and his fund-raising potential gives him perhaps the clearest path to the nomination of any Republican candidate. Unlike recent winners of Iowa, like Rick Santorum and Mike Huckabee, who were unacceptable in the blue states and lacked the resources to win the nomination, Mr. Walker could plausibly follow up an Iowa victory with a win in New Hampshire, especially given the divided nature of this year's field.No other Republican combines a natural factional base in an early primary state with the potential for broad acceptability throughout the party. Jeb Bush will face persistent resistance from the party's conservative wing, even if his combination of superior resources and just enough appeal could allow him to prevail in a protracted fight. The many conservatives competing with Mr. Walker in Iowa, like Ted Cruz or Mr. Huckabee, have won loyal but narrow support by embracing messages that alienate much of the party. Marco Rubio, perhaps the only candidate who appeals more broadly throughout the party than Mr. Walker, does not have a natural base of support in the party and has struggled to break through.But a straightforward path to victory is no guarantee of victory. In August 2011, if you had asked, 'Who is in the best position to win the Republican nomination?' many might have responded 'Rick Perry.' On paper, he was broadly acceptable throughout the party and to its establishment, he had a strong pitch to conservative voters desperate for an alternative to Mitt Romney, and he led polls in Iowa and nationally in 2011. But he promptly blew his opportunity with a series of missteps that made him seem woefully unprepared for the presidency.Mr. Walker, of course, has not yet blown his chances. But he has nonetheless raised doubts about his preparedness for a presidential campaign.Early on, he 'punted' on questions about evolution; he said he did not know whether President Obama was a Christian; he argued that his experience facing down protesters in Madison prepared him to defeat the Islamic State; and he quickly shifted positions on ethanol and immigration to align with the preferences of Iowa voters.More recently, Mr. Walker has struggled to find the right balance between appealing to the party's conservative base and the rest of the party, particularly electability-minded donors. He called the Supreme Court ruling on same-sex marriage a 'grave mistake' and continues to support a constitutional amendment to allow states to ban same-sex marriage. That, along with his moves on immigration and ethanol, raised concerns among many party elites, as my colleagues Jonathan Martin and Maggie Haberman have reported.These doubts are not limited to the party's moderates. Tom Coburn, the former senator from Oklahoma, said Mr. Walker 'might not be ready for prime time.' Mike Lee, a senator from Utah, said he was 'doubtful' about Mr. Walker before meeting him. Mr. Lee apparently came away impressed, but the initial expectation may be the better indicator of his reputational challenge.Mr. Walker has plenty of time to assuage these concerns. The debates could be especially important. But he has not made much progress so far, and additional mistakes will fit the narrative that he is unprepared. Though he doesn't have much room for mistakes, he has a surprisingly clear road forward if he can avoid them.