Hillary Rodham Clinton falters, and Republicans ride to her rescue.When White House controversies dogged Mrs. Clinton as first lady, the independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr made her sympathetic with his Javert-like investigations. When Mrs. Clinton showed flaws during her 2000 Senate race, Rudolph W. Giuliani and Rick Lazio looked even worse to many New Yorkers. And when the attacks on American diplomats in Libya sullied her record as secretary of state, Republicans struck many viewers as overreaching when they badgered her at a televised hearing.Now, as she seeks the Democratic presidential nomination, Mrs. Clinton is struggling with declining poll numbers, questions about her honesty and doubts about her ultimate electability. And once again, her Republican rivals are allowing her to turn their own words against them in ways that could help win over some of her skeptics.By branding Mexicans as rapists, calling the children of immigrants 'anchor babies,' denouncing abortions for rape and incest victims, and threatening to shut down the government over federal aid to Planned Parenthood, Republicans are giving Mrs. Clinton political help as she tries to divert attention from her woes and bounce back from a politically challenging summer.Several Democratic Party officials with qualms about Mrs. Clinton, for instance, said she had reassured them about her political acumen and fighting form with a fiery speech  Friday that assailed Donald J. Trump over his 'hateful' remarks about immigrants, Senator Marco Rubio on his unwavering opposition to abortion, and Jeb Bush for saying he was not sure 'we need a half a billion dollars for women's health issues.''I had kind of low expectations for Hillary Clinton: Almost all of the clips I'd seen on television showed her as kind of stiff, distant and reading her remarks,' said Rick Boylan, a Democratic national committeeman from Florida. Instead, he said, 'she was on point, direct, strong, and spoke from the heart' as she delivered lines, like 'the party of Lincoln has become the party of Trump,' that delighted Mr. Boylan.Kate Gallego, another of the 713 Democratic superdelegates who have outsize power over the nomination, said she had decided to support Mrs. Clinton because of the way she took on Republicans in her speech. 'It was energizing for me to hear Secretary Clinton say, 'If equal pay for equal work is playing the 'gender card,' then deal me in,''' said Ms. Gallego, who is from Arizona.To sharpen the contrast, Mrs. Clinton and her team decided months ago to criticize Republicans by name rather than using general terms like 'the other side' and 'the Republicans,' as she often did during her 2008 presidential run. In her attacks, she also uses phrases like 'the general election' in hopes of making voters comfortable with her as the Democratic standard-bearer.'Trump actually says he would do a much better job for women than I would,' Mrs. Clinton said in her speech last week. 'Now that's a general election debate that's going to be a lot of fun to have.'Using one's adversaries' words against them is nothing new - Mr. Bush is doing it to Mr. Trump in a new video. But Mrs. Clinton faces 17 Republican candidates who are so fractious that their attention-grabbing positioning, while appealing to Republican primary voters, may alienate general election voters in swing states like Florida and Colorado.On Tuesday, Mr. Bush said, 'The federal government shouldn't be involved in gun laws' - a comment that, like his opposition to citizenship for undocumented immigrants and his use of the term 'anchor babies,' may haunt him if he is the Republican nominee, Clinton advisers argue. Mr. Bush, in making the comment, said the fight against gun violence should focus on identifying people with mental illnesses.Over and over, Republicans have helped Mrs. Clinton to be successful in spite of herself, as some in their party acknowledge.'Certainly the G.O.P. and Trump are giving her good ammo, and it is funny, but she's like a magician - 'Look over here, not at what's really going on,''' said Richard Tafel, a Republican strategist, pointing to the inquiries related to her use of private email as secretary of state.Attacking the Republicans is not just an applause-line strategy, though. Clinton advisers are bent on making the presidential race into a so-called choice election - between Mrs. Clinton and a Republican opponent and their respective policies and visions - rather than a referendum on Mrs. Clinton, which would be a harder fight for Democrats to win.'She is drawing a contrast here around who is best suited and best able to lead America into the future on behalf of everyday working Americans,' said Joel Benenson, Mrs. Clinton's chief strategist. 'Do the Republicans continue to reinforce their weaknesses as candidates and as a party? They clearly do, and she's pointing that out. And these aren't Republican gaffes she is citing - these are their core beliefs.'Steve Elmendorf, a Democratic strategist and lobbyist who is close to the Clinton campaign, noted that the hyperaggressive news media environment virtually required politicians to attack rivals by name to draw maximum attention. 'You'll get covered if you say, 'Jeb Bush believes this' or 'Scott Walker believes that,''' he said. At this point, Mrs. Clinton almost never names her Democratic rivals, like Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, preferring that they receive as little attention as possible.Mrs. Clinton also risks overreaching, however. Last week on Twitter, for instance, her campaign said, 'How do Jeb Bush and Donald Trump differ on immigration? Spoiler alert: They don't' - even though Mr. Bush has criticized Mr. Trump's support for deporting illegal immigrants and repealing birthright citizenship. Some political fact-checkers dinged the Clinton assertion as mostly false, while a Bush spokesman said her attacks on Republicans would ultimately backfire.'Hillary's playbook has been clear from the start: divide and conquer, because she has no other path to victory,' said the spokesman, Tim Miller. 'This is exactly what Americans are sick of in D.C., so that's an opening for a Republican nominee to exploit.'But for now, her supporters believe, the more Mrs. Clinton rakes Republicans over their own coals, the better chance voters will put aside misgivings about her and consider whether their views are closer to hers or to those of the Republicans.'Everyone knows a choice election is more winnable than a referendum,' said Christine Pelosi, a Democratic superdelegate from California who is supporting Mrs. Clinton and who is a daughter of the House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi. In politics, 'when you're explaining, you're losing,' she added. 'And there's not much to explain in, 'They want to stop fair pay and control women's bodies; Hillary wants to promote women's economic and personal freedoms.'''