If your entire understanding of the economy comes from headlines about the latest economic data, you would be forgiven for thinking these are the best of times. The unemployment rate is down to 5.1 percent, after all!If your entire understanding of the economy comes from what is going on in financial markets, you would be forgiven for thinking the same. The stock market, its recent dip notwithstanding, is still not far from all-time highs!That's what makes the latest annual data on incomes, released by the Census Bureau on Wednesday morning, an important corrective.The median American household in 2014 had a lower income, in inflation-adjusted terms, than it did in 2013. The $53,657 the household in the middle of the income distribution earned last year was down 1.5 percent from the year before, though the census said that shift was not statistically significant.But even if that drop is a statistical blip and you assume that middle-class incomes were really flat, flat isn't anything to celebrate in the current environment. The 2014 real median income number is 6.5 percent below its 2007, pre-crisis level. It is 7.2 percent below the number in 1999.A middle-income American family, in other words, makes substantially less money in inflation-adjusted terms than it did 15 years ago. And there is no evidence that is reversing. Those families lost ground in 2014. And as we've reported previously, the data on wages in 2015 so far does not suggest there is a meaningful acceleration on the way.A drop in the price of oil, though, has created a short-term drop in inflation numbers that may create a temporary bump in inflation-adjusted incomes for 2015 anyway.The depressing data on middle-class wages is true across almost all groups based on race and age. One exception is a 5.3 percent gain in median wages among Hispanics in 2014, though that is within the statistical margin of error and so may not be meaningful.If you were to sum up the latest census numbers on incomes in the United States in 2014, it would be with these three words: 'not statistically different.' The announcement includes the phrase six times in its discussion of incomes, and that fact sums up a lot.Stagnant incomes were a problem in 2013. They remained so in 2014. The evidence we have so far suggests nothing about that is changing in 2015. That is the reality shaping the backdrop to the 2016 presidential campaign, the Federal Reserve's interest rate debates and the dinnertime table conversations about the state of the economies in families across the United States.The latest census numbers may not be surprising, in the sense that they affirm a trend that has been underway for 15 years and counting. But they are a timely reminder of what really ails the economy.