Good Wednesday morning from what scientists now say is a dying universe and where Donald J. Trump remains the leader in Republican polls. But while he dabbled in policy discussions and held a large rally in Michigan on Tuesday, one of his major rivals, Jeb Bush, regained some of the spotlight by attacking Hillary Rodham Clinton over the Obama administration's policies in the Middle East.Republican attacks on Mrs. Clinton's lucrative speeches and her comment that she was 'dead broke' seem quaint compared with linking her to the violence, beheadings and instability sweeping the Middle East.On Tuesday, Mr. Bush ushered in a new phase of the campaign, where Mrs. Clinton's record at the State Department will face intense scrutiny for the rise of the Islamic State and the violence engulfing Syria and Iraq.In a speech at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif., Mr. Bush said Mrs. Clinton 'stood by' as secretary of state as the situation in Iraq worsened and the Obama administration pulled troops out, a vacuum that he said the Islamic State had rushed in to fill.The Clinton campaign, in turn, cast the blame further back, saying that President George W. Bush's decision to invade Iraq in the first place created the group. 'ISIS grew out of Al Qaeda in Iraq,' said Jake Sullivan, the Clinton campaign's senior policy adviser, 'It emerged in no small part as a result of President Bush's failed strategy.'Mrs. Clinton, whose vote to authorize the war in Iraq hurt her in the 2008 Democratic nominating contest, hardly talks about foreign policy or her time at the State Department. Instead, she devotes her town-hall-style events and speeches to policy areas like the economy, the environment and her new college affordability plan.But as Mr. Bush made clear on Tuesday, Republicans will press the issue with Mrs. Clinton on foreign policy and over the Obama administration's approach - whether over the spread of the Islamic State, the 'reset' of relations with Russia or the nuclear deal with Iran.- Amy ChozickStay tuned throughout the day: Follow us on Twitter @NYTpolitics and on Facebook for First Draft updates.Mr. Bush, whose campaign this summer unsuccessfully pushed for Nevada to switch from a caucus system to a primary and who recently chose leaders to run campaign operations in all of the state's counties, will hold a rally in Reno and a town-hall-style event in Las Vegas later in the day.And Rick Santorum, who won the Iowa caucuses in 2012, but whose poll numbers left him out of the top 10 for last week's Republican debate, continues a sustained trip in the state, all part of his goal, his campaign says, 'to reach all 99 Iowa counties.'After a quiet but relatively well-received performance at the debate, Ben Carson is headed to Harlem.Mr. Carson will speak with Harlem residents on Wednesday at Sylvia's Restaurant, well known for its Southern comfort food, where photos of President Obama, former President Bill Clinton, the Rev. Al Sharpton and Representative Charles B. Rangel, all Democrats, hang on the walls.'This is a private event,' said a woman who answered the phone at Sylvia's. 'They called us up and booked the private area,' she added, before emphasizing that hosting the event did not represent an endorsement.On Sunday, Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon whose best moment in the debate came when he said he was the only candidate who had separated conjoined twins, visited a church in Iowa where he spoke about his faith.He told the congregation of growing up poor in Detroit, how much he hated it and of how he found God in trying to deal with his temper. Despite his lengthy medical résumé, he has not held public office and has relied heavily on his personal narrative.'Dr. Carson is not here to campaign,' the church's pastor said, according to The Des Moines Register. 'We're not saying go vote for Dr. Carson. We're saying here's a man who walks humbly before his God, who has an incredible message not only for us but for our country.'The Sylvia's event is another chance for him to introduce himself to voters. And Harlem, home to the country's first black renaissance, may also offer a stage to discuss the Black Lives Matter movement, a subject Mr. Carson, the only black candidate in either party, has touched on only briefly.'He is not here to make statements,' a spokeswoman, Deana Bass, said. 'This is a meet and greet for him to visit the restaurant and chat with residents. It is nothing extra.'- Sandra E. GarciaGov. John R. Kasich of Ohio came to a Peterborough, N.H., event on Tuesday with a take-the-high-road answer prepared for questions about Mr. Trump.'I don't have time to talk about somebody else,' Mr. Kasich said, adding that he was fully occupied, like Mr. Carson, with introducing himself to voters.Responding to a question from a voter about how he had similarly deflected the topic of Mr. Trump in a CNN interview, Mr. Kasich even avoided mentioning the unlikely Republican poll-leader by name.For a while, that is.He eventually gave in to temptation, after uncorking a metaphor about how his much-praised debate performance was akin to being an astronaut launched in a rocket ship.'Thank God for Donald Trump; 24 million people tuned in,' Mr. Kasich said, drawing knowing laughs about the Trump-inflated audience.- Jonathan MartinSenator Marco Rubio of Florida's presidential campaign so far has been a lot of fits and starts: It impresses; it raises expectations; then it goes quiet. And it's all part of the plan.Responding to a New York Times Magazine article on efforts to undermine the 1965 Voting Rights Act, Mr. Obama wrote a letter to the editor, arguing that voting rights must be 'vigorously defended' and calling on Congress to restore the law in the wake of a Supreme Court ruling that invalidated crucial parts of it.Mrs. Clinton has directed aides to give an email server and a thumb drive to the Justice Department as the inspector general for the intelligence community told members of Congress that two of the former secretary of state's emails among the 40 he has reviewed held classified information.And if there is a war between Mr. Trump and Fox News, it is an unconventional one. It is not mutually assured destruction; it is mutually beneficial combat.Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont continues to not only draw the kind of large crowds that other candidates dream of, but also gain ground on Mrs. Clinton in polls. The Washington Post and The Los Angeles Times take a look at his success.Politico reports that Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, who is the highest-ranking Democrat to come out against the Iran nuclear deal, and is expected to be among the lead contenders to take over the party's Senate leadership when Senator Harry Reid of Nevada steps down, has been 'working the phones' to explain his decision and to assure Democrats that he will not try to secure more no votes.And Mr. Bush's Middle East policy attacks against Mrs. Clinton, Slate argues, will put her in the position of having to choose between defending herself and criticizing Mr. Obama during the Democratic contest.Mr. Trump may have a lot of money, but he is refusing to spend it on his campaign, like by buying television ads, spending on ballot access, or paying for campaign rallies, The Wall Street Journal reports.The fact that former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, and Mr. Santorum are continuing their campaigns despite fund-raising woes shows how 'super PACs' can keep failing campaigns alive, Politico reports.Connie's Fried Chicken in Tupelo, Miss., has a small dining area, maybe enough to seat 30 or 40. Hundreds of people R.S.V.P.'d to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas' 'Down Home Breakfast' event on Tuesday.So the owner called up Scott Hendrix, a local classic car enthusiast who owns 15 historical automobiles, at least 'one in each decade,' and asked him to park his 1965 Ford F-250 flatbed pickup truck outside, so that Mr. Cruz would have a new stage.Mr. Hendrix was happy to oblige, as both a Republican and a friend of the owner, but he didn't know Mr. Cruz too well. After the speech, however, his tone shifted.'I was happy to have done it for him, but I didn't start out to do it that way,' Mr. Hendrix said. But now 'I really like what he has to say.'Mr. Hendrix's cars are his life's passion; he remembers putting his piggy bank savings into a rumble seat of the first classic car he bought with his father: a 1930 Ford Model A Roadster.'For all of $21, I owned the back seat of that car,' he said.If Mr. Cruz returned to Mississippi, and was in need of a classic car again, say the Roadster or any other of his fleet, could he turn to Mr. Hendrix?'Absolutely,' he said.- Nick Corasaniti