Former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, his campaign effectively out of money, withdrew from the presidential race Friday afternoon, becoming the first Republican to quit the 2016 contest.'We have a tremendous field of candidates - probably the greatest group of men and women,' Mr. Perry said in a speech in St. Louis to the conservative Eagle Forum, alluding to the 16 Republican candidates left. 'I step aside knowing our party is in good hands, as long as we listen to the grassroots, listen to the cause of conservatism. If we do that, then our party will be in good hands.'I give you this news with no regrets,' he continued. 'It has been a privilege for me, it has been an honor to travel this country, to speak with the American people about their hopes and their dreams, to see a sense of optimism being prevalent despite this season of cynical politics.'Mr. Perry was making his second consecutive run for the presidency but it failed to catch fire, and in recent weeks his small cadre of advisers had been discussing whether he should drop out of the race. They decided he had no choice because of cash-flow issues, advisers said. He had already stopped paying staff and was uncertain whether he would even have the money to pay the state filing fees required in the coming months to be on the ballot next year, they said. Mr. Perry had yet to file for the South Carolina primary, where the deadline for ballot access is Sept. 30 and the state Republican Party requires a $40,000 fee.'It takes patience, performance and money, and we had two out of the three,' said Henry Barbour, a Republican strategist and adviser to Mr. Perry.Mr. Perry's decision to withdraw likely means the end of a political career that was remarkable in Texas but lackluster beyond his state's borders. He was governor for over 14 years, a record there.  But his White House bid in 2012, while initially promising, fizzled after a series of missteps, most memorably when he said 'Oops' on a debate stage after failing to recall the names of the Cabinet departments he would eliminate as president. And despite years of policy tutorials leading up to this race, he was unable to gain much traction among Republican voters looking for new blood.'People want to see the new candidates, and we're in a cable news-reality TV primary,' Mr. Barbour said. 'It's a weird dynamic.'Mr. Perry's decision to suspend his campaign roiled the Texas donor world on Friday, setting off a race to win the allegiance of Mr. Perry's wealthiest supporters, who poured more than $17 million into his super PAC even while his campaign struggled to raise traditional contributions.'It will be a scramble for the people who are big Rick supporters,' said Chart Westcott, a Texas financier who has helped raise money for a super PAC supporting Scott Walker, the governor of Wisconsin. 'But who knows what their appetite is.'The super PACs backing Mr. Perry, collectively known as Freedom and Opportunity, had a raised more than $17 million as of earlier this summer, mostly from a handful of wealthy Texas families, dwarfing the amount raised by his campaign, which was limited by law to raising only $2,700 from each donor. Mr. Perry's advisers were uncertain what would happen with the super PAC money, but noted that much of it came from a pair of Dallas executives, Kelcy Warren and Darwin Deason, and that they would be consulted. 'We have to see what the law allows and we have to see what our donors want,' said Austin Barbour, Henry's brother and an adviser to Mr. Perry's super PAC.  'The first thing we are going to do is talk to our lawyers tomorrow.'Mr. Perry won the most attention this year for fiercely attacking Donald J. Trump, but the salvos did little to boost his own poll standing. Mr. Perry was excluded from the first debate on Aug. 6, narrowly missing the last spot on stage, which went to Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio. Mr. Perry was scheduled to once again appear at the preliminary forum before the prime-time debate on Wednesday.The son of dry-land cotton farmers, Mr. Perry embodied Texas bravado, winning three four-year terms, shooting a coyote while out on a jog and appearing on the cover of Newsweek in 2010 in cowboy boots emblazoned with the Texas battle cry 'Come and Take It.' He appointed every position on every board and commission in the state. An ongoing grand jury indictment over the use of his veto power barely scathed him. The chairman of the Republican Party of Texas called him the fourth-most important Republican in Texas history. In an editorial, The Houston Chronicle declared him 'the most powerful elected official in Texas history.''He was invincible,' said State Senator José Rodríguez, a Democrat from El Paso who is the chairman of the Senate Hispanic Caucus. 'Here's a man who won every campaign that he undertook. But I'm not surprised that he was not able to catch on with the electorate, particularly out there in Iowa and New Hampshire. All the publicity he got last time around with his mistakes were going to be very hard to overcome. He tried very hard. He seemed much more studied and prepared. But we're in a new stage, given the Trump phenomenon'Mr. Perry loved little more than boasting of his state's job growth, and aggressively lobbied companies to bring business to Texas. His efforts paid off and, thanks also to a surge in oil prices during his tenure, the state became an economic leader.When he first left state politics in the summer of 2011 to enter the Republican presidential contest, he quickly rose to the top of polls and was seen as a force by the rest of the field.  But he repeatedly faltered in candidate forums and, within weeks of joining the race, began a fade that would end when he withdrew shortly before the South Carolina primary in January 2012.After returning to the governorship, Mr. Perry admitted he had been ill-prepared for the demands of a national campaign and noted that, because of back surgery shortly before he entered the race, he had been in physical pain for much of that campaign. With a clean bill of health, and a new pair of fashionable glasses, he spent considerable time this campaign traveling abroad and sounding out a more foreign policy-heavy message in the lead-up to this race, hoping to receive a fresh look from Republican voters.But Mr. Perry won little support in early polls, obscured by a new generation of conservatives, including the junior senator from Texas, Ted Cruz.He won plaudits for a speech urging Republicans to more aggressively reach out to African-Americans, yet earned the most coverage when he went after Mr. Trump in the weeks after the real estate mogul belittled Senator John McCain's Vietnam war record. Mr. Perry, himself a former Air Force officer, tangled with Mr. Trump from afar, even challenging him to a pull-up contest at one point not long after Mr. Trump mocked his glasses. But the barbs did Mr. Perry little good, and by Friday, he acknowledged there was no path to the nomination.Nicholas Confessore and Manny Fernandez contributed reporting.