Last Friday, during a speech before a virtually all-black audience at the National Urban League Conference, the presidential candidate Hillary Clinton lauded the young African-American protesters who 'have taken to the streets, dignified and determined, urging us to affirm the basic fact that black lives matter.' Clinton's two Democratic opponents, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and former Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland, spoke at the same event; they, too, invoked the hashtag slogan.These recitations have been a compulsory ritual for Democratic candidates going on three weeks now, ever since Black Lives Matter activists interrupted an onstage interview with O'Malley at the Netroots Nation conference in Phoenix on July 18, confronting him with questions like 'As leader of this country, will you advance an agenda that will dismantle structural racism in this country?' O'Malley's faltering answer - 'Black lives matter. White lives matter. All lives matter' - was met with boos, as was Sanders's combative appearance after O'Malley left the stage.The subsequent scramble to mollify African-American activists with rote incantations has prompted derision from conservatives. Still, beneath the Democrats' fawning overtures lurks a reality that both parties understand well: In 2016, black votes matter, perhaps more than those of any other electoral group.That's the conclusion reached by the Cook Political Report analysts Amy Walter and David Wasserman, whose incisive paper, 'African-American Voters: The Overlooked Key to 2016,' was published eight days before O'Malley and Sanders stepped into the buzz saw. For two generations, it has been an assumption in both parties that the black vote is among the least fungible variables in American politics. The best any Republican presidential candidate since 1980 has done with black voters is a paltry 12 percent Bob Dole in 1996; only 6 percent of African-Americans who voted in 2012 voted for Mitt Romney. There is no serious reason to think this polarity will shift anytime soon.But elections are very rarely won by major realignments; most of the time, they're won around the margins - and the margins of the black vote are more malleable than they might initially appear. Consider George W. Bush's 2004 campaign: Nationwide, Bush won just 11 percent of the black vote. But his aggressive appeal on social issues to African-American Christian conservatives in Ohio earned him 16 percent in that pivotal state - enough to ensure his re-election. Using similar tactics, he won more than 13 percent of Florida's black voters and 16 percent of Pennsylvania's.In their paper, Walter and Wasserman point out that in the 2012 election, the percentage of eligible black voters who went to the polls 66.2 - a 5.9 increase from 2004 exceeded the percentage of whites 64.1 for the first time. Obama won because of the exceptionally high turnout among African-Americans in seven battleground states - whereas 'had ZERO Latinos voted in 2012, Obama would have lost the popular vote but still would have won the White House with 283 electoral votes.'What would happen in 2016 if black voters were less than inspired by the Democratic nominee and reverted to their 2004 turnout level? Or if a 2016 Republican candidate once again won over just enough people in a few pivotal African-American communities? 'To be sure,' Walter and Wasserman write, 'a return to pre-2008 African-American turnout levels wouldn't necessarily doom a Hillary Clinton candidacy, but it would leave her with a whole lot less margin for error in a host of swing states.'I discussed Walter and Wasserman's argument with several African-American political hands, all of whom concurred with the basic assessment. 'I do think that the African-American vote may be the most important demographic as it relates to the presidential race,' said Doug Thornell, a longtime Hill staffer who is now the managing partner of the high-powered Washington-based communications firm SKDKnickerbocker. Thornell warned, however, that candidates asking for the black vote will not succeed by speaking in rosy platitudes.'We did a poll last December in which African-Americans said that racism was the No. 1 issue in the country, ahead of the economy,' he told me. 'So the critical thing for any of the candidates, Democratic or Republican, is that they're going to have to talk about issues African-Americans really care about - things like economic opportunity, criminal-justice reform and voting rights. And it's not just what they say at black churches or in front of the N.A.A.C.P. that counts. It's also what they say in front of largely white audiences.'Cornell Belcher, a former Obama pollster, argues that Obama's presidency, combined with the recent rash of tragic race-related incidents, has permanently transformed the electorate. 'I reject this notion that we're going to see a wholesale decline in black turnout now that Obama's no longer running,' he told me. Belcher cited the African-American turnout figures during the 2014 midterm elections in Southern states like North Carolina, Georgia and Louisiana, which represented a higher share of the overall electorate than in 2010. Still, Belcher agreed with Thornell's cautionary note, saying, 'You've got to give them something to vote for.'That view was echoed by Rodell Mollineau, who worked for years with Senator Harry Reid and is now a political consultant. 'The activists at Netroots Nation were saying what many in the black community already think and feel, just more loudly,' Mollineau told me. 'And you saw how, within minutes of that unplanned event, it totally dominated social media. If you're a candidate and you're tone-deaf to these dynamics, you're going to face electoral problems.'The African-American Republicans with whom I spoke saw an opportunity for G.O.P. candidates to cut into the black vote now that Obama is no longer on the ticket. 'We think the African-American vote will be key in this election,' said Elroy Sailor, an adviser to Rand Paul. 'The African-American community hasn't been this politically engaged since the '60s. President Obama did a really good job of energizing and mobilizing African-Americans. In this election cycle, however, we predict the Democrat nominee will not be able to take the African-American vote for granted.'Paul - who has frequently visited black colleges and spoken out against discriminatory patterns in policing and sentencing - may have been particularly committed to peeling away some of the core Democratic electorate, but other Republicans are clearly reading the same voting totals. Former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas - a Tea Party favorite but also a staunch advocate for reducing nonviolent prison sentences - gave perhaps the most surprising speech of the campaign last month at the National Press Club, in which he acknowledged the important role of the federal government in enforcing civil rights.In his candidacy-announcement speech last month, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio said: 'You think about the troubles that many of our African-Americans still face today in the world where we have worked to provide equal rights and opportunities. Sometimes they're not so sure. And I don't blame them.' The political consultant and former Kasich legislative aide Ron Christie told me: 'So many Republicans over the years have said, 'Oh, you're African-American, so let's talk about crime or food stamps.' Governor Kasich never pandered that way, which is why he got 26 percent of the black vote when he was re-elected in 2014.'Doug Thornell is doubtful such overtures will bear any fruit for the G.O.P. 'You look at how most of the Republican candidates have been in a rush to condemn Donald Trump for his recent comments,' he told me. 'You didn't hear that fire when he demanded that President Obama show his birth certificate. And I can tell you, that was deeply upsetting to a lot of African-Americans. Republicans had to deal with that baggage in 2012, and I think they also will in 2016.'Nonetheless, Thornell agrees with Walter and Wasserman that Hillary Clinton is unlikely to inspire black turnout at the history-making levels achieved by Obama. I reached out to the Clinton senior spokeswoman Karen Finney who is African-American about the matter. Finney acknowledged that the black vote would be critical to her boss's victory and pointed to the early attention Clinton has paid to issues important to African-Americans - as in the candidate's first policy speech, on criminal-justice reform, at Columbia University this past April - as evidence that the campaign was taking the matter seriously. She also insisted that emphasizing such issues would not cost Clinton the working-class white voters who greatly favored her over Obama during the 2008 primaries.'The fact that you've got both Republicans and Democrats talking about issues like criminal-justice reform suggests a recognition that these issues are important,' she said. 'And the other reality is that some of these images we've seen on television, like Eric Garner, have been so jarring that it's stirred people across racial lines.'Clinton's Urban League speech last Friday was well received. But she and her party still have a lot of work to do in reaching African-American voters, says Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota, one of the most thoughtful Democrats on the subject. 'It's not so much a messaging problem as a message-delivery problem,' Ellison told me recently in his office in Washington. 'I think we have a whole lot of leading Democrats who are familiar faces around the country club, but not necessarily around the fast-food restaurants. And I'm not against the wealthy - I hope to be one myself someday. But when you're rich, you've got to try a little harder to step into the shoes of the people you say you're fighting for.'In Ellison's view, the Clinton campaign should not be content with approaching, or even matching, Obama's turnout numbers. 'Think what would happen,' he said, 'if you made a concerted effort in Texas, all the way into Louisiana, Mississippi and up to Virginia. You would change the South.'First, however, candidates and voters alike would have to change how they discuss racial divisions, Ellison said. 'How do we talk about race in America? Blame and shame, an endless loop. Me making you feel awful - that and $4.50 will get me a latte.'