When Donald Trump reached the top of the polls in July, his candidacy seemed very familiar, at least to me.His coalition was ideologically incoherent, and he had no support from party elites. His surge looked like a media-driven phenomenon with no foundation - exactly the sort of candidacy prone to collapse once coverage turned negative. It was a story that played out over and over again in the 2012 campaign.Two months later, Mr. Trump has not gone bust, as I thought he would. He has demonstrated that he can drive the media as much as the media is driving his support. And his coalition is united as much by affection for his demeanor as his policies - insulating him from fallout over inflammatory remarks that would doom other candidates.Suddenly, the question isn't whether Mr. Trump is different from someone like Herman Cain in 2012, but how different? Is he so different that he could survive not just for a month or two, but all the way to Iowa and New Hampshire? Is he so different that he could even win?Mr. Trump may be very different from past candidates, but his story could easily end the way theirs did. He remains an extreme long shot, for the same reasons that no candidate remotely like him has ever come close to winning a presidential nomination.His chances will depend on the extent that his celebrity, media prowess and self-funding can defy the party elites who traditionally decide nomination contests. Those assets may be enough for him to brush aside the attacks that have quickly caused other campaigns to implode in the past. But amassing the delegates and voters to win the nomination is a lot harder than withstanding attacks on controversial comments five or six months before an election.Grass-roots conservatives and liberals may resent it, but many analysts - including me - argue that the outcome of presidential nominations is shaped or even decided by party elites. That's a broadly defined category of nearly anyone who has the power to sway public opinion with money, skills or media reach. It includes party officials, politicians, political operatives, donors, activists, television pundits and radio hosts.Many candidates - 'factional' candidates, as I described them in a taxonomy of primary candidates in April - can become the favorite of a major group of voters, lead the national polls for a time and even win states without broad support from party elites. But no candidate has won the nomination without the support of those elites.From this perspective, Mr. Trump, an outsider candidate with little support from the party establishment, has just about no chance of winning the nomination, no matter how well he is doing in the early polls.'Trump is the perfect test case,' said Marty Cohen, an author of 'The Party Decides,' the well-regarded academic book that made the case for an elite-driven nomination process. Mr. Cohen and his three co-authors, all four political scientists, found that money, media attention and poll numbers three categories in which Mr. Trump is at least competitive were not nearly as predictive as endorsements, a category Mr. Trump seems sure to lose.For past candidates, elite support has been necessary, and unified party opposition has been fatal. Without elite support, an ordinary candidate can't build a top campaign or raise big money or draw major attention from traditional media.Party opposition is even worse. It ensures a chorus of influential critics in the media and a well-funded opponent with endless resources for advertisements to echo the attacks. Grass-roots support and super PACs can help compensate for a lack of broad support, but they probably can't overcome broad opposition. The voice of the elites is too strong and influential.But Mr. Trump is not an ordinary candidate. 'We've seen populist insurgents, businessmen who can self-finance and celebrities who captivate the media,' said David Karol, a co-author of 'The Party Decides.' 'But there has been no one who has all of these characteristics. He poses a challenge to traditional party elites of a sort we haven't seen at the national level in modern times. He cannot be sidelined easily.'You didn't read things like this from political scientists or data journalists two months ago, but Mr. Trump has since shown himself to be a different kind of challenger than ones from the recent past. His comments about Senator John McCain's status as a war hero prompted unified outrage across the party, but did little if any damage. Neither did his disparagement  of Megyn Kelly of Fox News, or countless disputes with rival candidates.Many of his supporters say they admire his bold personality and his willingness to say what he thinks. A Google Consumer Survey sponsored by Echelon Insights gave voters the opportunity to describe why they supported Mr. Trump, and over all, half of his supporters said they liked him because of his authenticity, compared with 14 percent who mentioned a policy.There is no guarantee, of course, that Mr. Trump can pull this off indefinitely. The wrong remark or a bad debate performance could start to damage him at any point. Another candidate could surge in the polls and steal the limelight. But there isn't a guarantee that he implodes before Iowa or New Hampshire either.Could Mr. Trump really then go on to win the nomination? 'Party insiders can contain weak forces, but not very strong ones, because if a majority of voters really wants something, the nomination system is too democratic to deny it to them,' argued John Zaller, another author of 'The Party Decides.'But is Mr. Trump such a strong candidate? He remains a candidate with many flaws. He has staked out policy positions on taxes and health care that put him out of step with many Republican voters and nearly all Republican elites.'The reason I think he cannot get the nomination,' Mr. Zaller said, 'is not that insiders have some magical ability to stop someone who runs strongly in the primaries and caucuses. It is because I don't think Trump can run that strongly, especially now that he is talking about tax increases.'It is tempting to look at Mr. Trump's resilience thus far and conclude that he can defy any effort to bring him down. But the party has not yet played its full hand, or anything like it. So far, Mr. Trump has fended off a few attacks from a disorganized party at a time when voters are paying relatively little attention. That will change.My colleague Nick Confessore reported that Republican groups are mulling waging a large campaign against Mr. Trump. But that effort has struggled, in part because attacking him brings risks, and every group argues that someone else ought to do the work of taking him down. It's a textbook collective action problem.It would be easier if the party had already coalesced around a single candidate. 'I think 2016 was already particularly challenging without Trump,' said Hans Noel, another of the book's authors. The G.O.P. has struggled to coalesce behind anything like a consensus candidate because the party is so fractured and the field is so big.The party has huge incentives to unify against Trump. He is unacceptable to nearly every Republican wing. A unified party could spend millions - even hundreds of millions - attacking Mr. Trump, criticizing him in the media and fueling his eventual opponent.'There have been efforts like it in the past, like Buchanan in 1996, who the party really went after and solidified behind Dole,' said Mr. Cohen. Pat Buchanan, then best known as a political pundit, defeated Bob Dole in the New Hampshire primary - and didn't win a primary again.Mr. Trump, without party support, could lack the experienced staff to run a strong ground operation, turn out irregular voters and get on the ballot across the country Rick Santorum and some other G.O.P. candidates failed to get on all the ballots in 2012. It remains to be seen how much of his own money Mr. Trump is willing to spend on the campaign.Some analysts, like Norman Ornstein, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, question whether the establishment can exert enough influence over an electorate that seems to despise it. But the party has succeeded in swaying voters even if conservatives have big reservations, as was the case with Mr. McCain in 2008 and Mitt Romney in 2012. It might be harder for the party to reach that point this year, with such a large field, but the field will eventually narrow.In both those elections, the establishment prevailed by swaying voters in blue and purple states. The 2008 contest was decided on Super Tuesday with big victories by Mr. McCain in California, New York, New Jersey and Illinois. The 2012 contest took longer to decide, in part because those states were pushed back in the calendar and didn't vote while the race was competitive, but Mr. Romney fought his way to the nomination with wins in Ohio, Michigan, New Hampshire and Florida.The blue-state Republicans are often forgotten because the Republicans who control the House and Senate tend to hail from the red states and districts where the G.O.P. wins elections. But the Obama-voting states still possess the delegates necessary to decide the G.O.P. nomination; Republicans in those states are generally more moderate, less religious and better educated than the red-state Republicans. If it came down to it, G.O.P. campaigns and aligned super PACs could easily spend more than $100 million in California, New York, New Jersey and other big, blue and often winner-take-all states in April, May and June of 2016 to knock Mr. Trump out.Would that be the party deciding, or the voters?