Bernie Sanders is said to be surging, Joe Biden is considering jumping in the race, and Hillary Rodham Clinton's unfavorable ratings are the worst they've been in her 23-plus years in national politics - worse than they were in 2007 or 2008.Whether you call it wishful thinking or a worst-case scenario, it's enough to make some people say the Clinton campaign is in serious trouble. But is it? Has she forfeited the huge advantages she held at the start of the year? Does Mr. Sanders, or another Democrat, have a real chance to beat her in the primary? Has she done great damage to her chances in the general election?Probably not. At least not yet. It could change if the investigation into her email account takes a more serious turn, or if another problem arises. But for now, the damage to Mrs. Clinton has been overstated.You might not know it if you're reading the various articles about Mr. Sanders's rise in the polls, but Mrs. Clinton still holds as strong a position as any primary candidate in history. And oddly, Mr. Sanders and Mr. Biden have helped clarify that strength.The Sanders surge has slowed over the last month. Yes, a poll out of New Hampshire has him leading Mrs. Clinton. But Iowa and New Hampshire were always going to be his strong spots - just as liberal havens like Seattle and Boulder, Colo., are favorable terrain.A closer look at the polls shows that he is simply not within striking distance of winning the nomination. His support has run into a wall: Women, blacks and Hispanics continue to support Mrs. Clinton by a wide margin, as do white moderate and conservative Democrats.Mr. Sanders has become the favorite of one of the Democratic Party's most important factions: the overwhelmingly white, progressive left. These voters are plentiful in the well-educated, more secular enclaves where journalists roam. This voting support is enough for him to compete in Iowa; New Hampshire and elsewhere in New England; the Northwest; and many Western caucuses. But it is not a viable electoral coalition in a Democratic Party that is far more moderate and diverse than his supporters seem to recognize.This doesn't mean that Mr. Sanders can't make further gains. But it does mean that he will need to broaden his appeal to voters who may be far less receptive to his message. The rapid consolidation of progressive activists is over, and additional inroads into Mrs. Clinton's coalition will be hard to come by.Mrs. Clinton's advantage among the majority of Democratic voters is underpinned by just about all of the forces that help shape public opinion and determine the outcome of primary elections. Her policy views are smack-dab in the middle of the Democratic electorate, denying Mr. Sanders much room to challenge her on the left. She has won the so-called invisible primary, the behind-the-scenes competition for elite support that helps decide the nomination. She has more endorsements and cash than just about any candidate in American history.Her commanding advantage among party elites has not been shaken by the concerns about her email account. Just ask Joe Biden.The possibility that Mr. Biden might run for president has led many to imagine that Mrs. Clinton's sagging support has Democrats on the verge of drafting him into the race. But the reaction from Democratic elites to a possible Biden run has been tepid at best. Major Democratic figures have publicly argued against his candidacy. My colleagues Carl Hulse and Jason Horowitz reported that the skepticism even extends to Mr. Biden's friends and many Obama 2008 supporters - exactly the sort of people who ought to be most receptive to his candidacy.Mr. Biden is the party's natural emergency alarm option. Party leaders aren't breaking the glass.If they do, it will be reason to reassess.Mrs. Clinton may be a primary juggernaut, but she could surely lose to a Republican in November 2016. President Obama's approval ratings are in the mid-40s, so Mrs. Clinton may not benefit from the party's incumbency. On paper, the race is more or less a tossup. In such a close contest, it might seem reasonable to argue that Mrs. Clinton's unfavorable ratings are hugely important.But the case for that argument isn't so strong. Much of the variation in presidential election results can be explained by underlying factors like the president's approval rating, the economy and partisanship.Many political scientists go a step further. Whether people have a favorable opinion of presidential candidates is as much about rationalizing a latent partisan preference - shaped by the underlying political and economic fundamentals - as it is about the candidates themselves. From this perspective, much of the damage to Mrs. Clinton among Republican-leaning independents was inevitable, while the damage to Democrats can be overcome by partisan loyalty.A good example of this is Mitt Romney, whose ratings fell even lower than Mrs. Clinton's during the Republican primary. He then faced a variety of attacks about his time at Bain Capital. He damaged himself with his '47 percent' comments. Yet despite it all, his ratings recovered by the 2012 general election. Republican-leaning voters, sure to vote against Mr. Obama, gradually figured out a way to like Mr. Romney. We saw the same thing with another Clinton, William Jefferson, who had even worse favorable ratings than Mrs. Clinton before quickly turning around his image once the 1992 general election began.It's useful to imagine a counterfactual: What if the economy had been stronger, and George H.W. Bush had had a 60 percent approval rating, on Election Day in 1992? Mr. Clinton wouldn't have had a chance against those numbers, of course, but Mr. Bush wouldn't have been running just on his record. He would have attacked Mr. Clinton's character and he would have maintained a lead in the polls as a media narrative coalesced around a simple explanation: Mr. Clinton, with his weak numbers, was a smooth-talking womanizer who couldn't be trusted. After his defeat, Mr. Clinton would have been remembered as yet another weak Democratic candidate in the footsteps of Walter Mondale and Michael Dukakis, fatally damaged before the campaign had even begun, rather than as one of the more talented politicians of our time.For some, this line of thinking offers an uncomfortably deterministic theory about American presidential politics. But it helps explain a lot, such as why favorability ratings can move so much, even when there is relatively little new information about a candidate. It helps explain why, on the other hand, supposed game-changers often seem to have no effect. And it helps explain why, in the end, the polls move toward the fundamentals as the campaign evolves.This doesn't necessarily mean that Mrs. Clinton is in the clear. The fundamentals are strongest when an incumbent president is on the ballot because the feelings about the president are so strong and firm on either side. Mr. Romney, for instance, might have had a harder time improving his ratings and winning back G.O.P. voters - who disapproved of Mr. Obama - if his opponent had not been Mr. Obama.For this cycle, the fitting analogy might be Al Gore, who started with far weaker favorability ratings than George W. Bush, with the backdrop of Mr. Clinton's scandals. The economic fundamentals, though, seemed to suggest that Mr. Gore was in line to score a decisive victory. Indeed, the gap between Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore's ratings closed as the race went on in 2000. But Mr. Gore, who like Mrs. Clinton was seeking to make it a third presidential victory in a row for Democrats, fell short.More generally, there have been so few presidential elections in the era of modern polling that it would be a mistake to be too sure that Mrs. Clinton's image won't be a factor. In a century, political scientists could easily look back and say, with the help of new data, that favorability ratings can be decisive. For now, it would be unwise to rule it out. We already know that scandals can hurt incumbents in House elections, but it doesn't come close to dooming them, studies have shown.The issue with Mrs. Clinton's email account and server doesn't yet rise to the level of the scandals counted in the studies on House elections. But the possibility that the investigation will take a new turn can't be ruled out. That's the real danger for Mrs. Clinton, not her sagging ratings.