SIMI VALLEY, Calif. - Determined to prove their mettle, several Republican presidential candidates showed new aggressiveness in lacing into Donald J. Trump on Wednesday night, seeking to elevate themselves as leaders of substance and shake up a race that Mr. Trump has dominated all summer.While moderators at the CNN debate tried repeatedly to pit one Republican after another against Mr. Trump, the candidates fought to break out of that dynamic, with Carly Fiorina emerging as an especially tenacious combatant who provided some of the few moments where Mr. Trump looked uncomfortable.The debate covered a broad range of subjects - immigration, the nuclear deal with Iran, same-sex marriage, federal financing for Planned Parenthood - and was more inclusive than the first debate last month, allowing each of the 11 candidates to engage through a nearly three-hour forum that tested their endurance.Still, some of the most memorable interactions centered on loaded confrontations with Mr. Trump. Mrs. Fiorina called him 'an entertainer,' and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky labeled him 'sophomoric' in the opening minutes of the debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library here. Mr. Trump drew a stinging assault on his leadership abilities and character from Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, one of several candidates who have declined in the polls as Mr. Trump has soared.'We don't need an apprentice in the White House - we have one right now,' Mr. Walker said, invoking the name of Mr. Trump's former reality show. When Mr. Trump sharply criticized his record in Wisconsin, Mr. Walker hit back: 'Just because he says it doesn't make it true. The facts are the facts.'Another struggling candidate, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, who has been Mr. Trump's chief target, was initially slow to take him on, but then ripped into him for suggesting that Mr. Bush would be a puppet of his major donors. He accused Mr. Trump of using his enormous wealth to act like a 'special interest' by lobbying for casino gambling in Florida when Mr. Bush was governor there.'Totally false,' said Mr. Trump, who rolled his eyes and feigned looks of shock as his opponents piled on.'You wanted it, and you didn't get it because I was opposed,' Mr. Bush shot back.'More energy tonight. I like that,' Mr. Trump quipped, drawing a look of fury from Mr. Bush, whose low-key manner he has lampooned all summer.Several candidates tried to connect with voters on a personal level. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey spoke at length about his fears that his wife had been killed in the Sept. 11 attacks and that he might become a single parent. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida spoke about the importance of speaking Spanish in his family, and used national security questions about Russia and Syria to pledge that he had the experience to keep Americans safe. And Ben Carson, a retired neurosurgeon and a social conservative, said he loathed politics as much as many of the voters who have helped him and Mr. Trump emerge as the leading candidates in polls.'When I entered this race, all the political pundits said, 'It's impossible; you can't do it because you're not connected with the money,''' Mr. Carson said. 'We now have over 500,000 donations, and the money is coming in. But the pundits forgot about one thing, and that is the people. And they are really in charge.'The attacks from Mr. Bush and Mrs. Fiorina were expected, given how harshly Mr. Trump has jabbed at them in recent weeks. But perhaps more notable was that Mr. Walker, too, in an acknowledgment that he has to make up lost ground, repeatedly took on Mr. Trump.At times, Mr. Trump responded to attacks with gusto, belittling Mr. Paul's appearance 'I never attacked him on his looks, and believe me, there is plenty of subject matter right there', bashing Mr. Walker for his collapse in the polls in Iowa 'You went down the tubes' and treating Mr. Bush - as well as his brother George W. Bush - dismissively.'Your brother's administration gave us Barack Obama, because it was such a disaster,' Mr. Trump snapped at one point.'You know what? As it relates to my brother, there's one thing I know for sure: He kept us safe,' Mr. Bush said, drawing strong applause on a night when he often delivered sharp lines with an uneasy, obligatory tone - knowing he had to attack but seeming not to relish it.Mr. Trump appeared cowed at only one moment, when a moderator noted that he had recently denigrated Mrs. Fiorina's appearance, saying: 'Look at that face! Would anybody vote for that?' He later claimed he had been referring to her persona. Mrs. Fiorina was asked what she thought of Mr. Trump's persona.'I think women all over this country heard very clearly what Mr. Trump said,' she said pointedly.Her riposte drew the loudest applause of the debate, and Mr. Trump waited until it died down to reply.'I think she's got a beautiful face, and she's a beautiful woman,' Mr. Trump said as Mrs. Fiorina looked on stonily.Over and over, the discussion returned to Mr. Trump, who stood center-stage, his shoulders slouched forward, hands on lectern and lips pursed. He gladly took on his rivals, but was unable to bait the moderators into a spat and seemed not to enjoy the evening as much as he had at the first debate. As the night went on, he became quieter and, in an interview with CNN immediately after the debate, complained that it had gone on 'too long' and said it had to have been the longest ever held.The debate highlighted significant policy differences among the candidates, with Gov. John Kasich of Ohio and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas tangling over the Iran accord and whether congressional Republicans should stop funding the government as part of an effort to end public financing for Planned Parenthood.In a glimpse at the tension between the hard-right and more centrist wings of the Republican Party, Mr. Kasich mocked the idea that the deal between Iran and multiple world powers could be summarily discarded, saying Americans 'operate better in a world when our allies work with us.' And he warned Republicans not to shut down the government.Mr. Cruz gave no quarter, citing videos that show Planned Parenthood officials discussing fees for tissue from aborted fetuses as evidence of a 'criminal enterprise' and denouncing Republicans for 'pre-emptively surrendering to Barack Obama.'Mr. Walker, asserting himself after a sharp fall in the polls, repeatedly interjected when he was not called on, attacking Mr. Trump and later criticizing the Washington political establishment.Mr. Christie, who was left out of the conversation for much of the night, eventually intervened in the argument between Mr. Trump and Mrs. Fiorina, chiding them for focusing on their own careers rather than on Americans who are struggling.'You're both successful people, congratulations,' Mr. Christie said, raising his voice at Mrs. Fiorina and warning her not to interrupt him. 'Stop this childish back and forth.'The conversation turned even more pointed and personal when a CNN moderator noted that Mr. Trump had suggested that Mr. Bush's views on immigration were shaped by his marriage to a Mexican-born woman.Mr. Bush seized the moment, turning to Mr. Trump, just inches to his right, and imploring him to apologize to his wife, Columba, who was in the audience.'No, because I said nothing wrong,' Mr. Trump said, prompting Mr. Bush to flash the tight grimace he displayed repeatedly throughout the night when Mr. Trump spoke.As the debate neared its conclusion, the questions turned lighter and the candidates punchier. They were asked what woman they might put on the $10 bill Rosa Parks was a favorite, and Mr. Bush picked a non-American, Margaret Thatcher. And when asked what their Secret Service code names would be, Mr. Bush, turning to Mr. Trump, said he would choose 'Eveready.''It's very high energy, Donald,' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line, holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap, which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump, yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6, and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump, Mr. Carson, Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday's forum, held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party's most revered presidents, had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month's debate, which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others, like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity, it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential. In no small part because of last month's debate, one candidate, Rick Perry, has exited the presidential race, and others have advanced or faded in the polls.