1 abandon-anticipate And as Brendan Nyhan has explained , the furor over her private email account is likely to affect far fewer voters than may now appear to be the case.But what if the unlikely happens , and she is forced to abandon her planned presidential campaign because of a development we ca n't now anticipate ?
2 abandon-send Send a Thug and a Tineye with him as protection , but tell him to abandon his canal boats one day out of the city , then return to us . ''
3 abandoned-were The building did n't smell musty enough to be abandoned , but the bottom few floors were obviously unused .
4 abhor-espoused Nearly all are hawks who abhor not only Obama 's posture of caution but also the old-style , consensus-building internationalism espoused by officials who served in the first Bush administration , like Richard Burt and Lorne Craner , who are now on Rand Paul 's foreign-policy team .
5 abide-criticized ` Senator Marco Rubio of Florida also criticized the decision but added , ` We live in a republic and must abide by the law . '
6 abolish-seen ` Mr. Cruz , a first-term senator , is seen by Republicans and Democrats as a divisive figure in Washington , but as a truth-telling hero to many conservatives and evangelical Americans.His speech was packed with calls to ` imagine a president ' who would repeal the Affordable Care Act , abolish the Internal Revenue Service , ` defend the sanctity of human life and uphold the sacrament of marriage .
7 abolish-were ` If I were , not president , but if I were king in America , I would abolish all teachers ' lounges where they sit together and worry how woe is us . '
8 abolish-were `` He also had harsh words for teachers unions , saying , `` If I were , not president , but if I were king in America , I would abolish all teachers ' lounges where they sit together and worry about ` woe is us . ' ''
9 abolish-were ` If I were , not president , but if I were king in America , I would abolish all teachers ' lounges where they sit together and worry how woe is us . '
10 abolish-were `` He also had harsh words for teachers unions , saying , `` If I were , not president , but if I were king in America , I would abolish all teachers ' lounges where they sit together and worry about ` woe is us . ' ''
11 absorbed-watching Vin stood for a moment , watching him , but he seemed completely absorbed .
12 accept-trust They seemed willing to trust , even accept , Vin after a relatively short time .
13 accepted-approached Three more young men approached her for dances , but each one accepted her polite rejection .
14 accepted-frowned Vin frowned , but accepted the explanation .
15 accepting-include They were friendly and accepting , but they did n't think to include her .
16 access-belong You can not access the power because it does not belong to you . ''
17 access-drawn Many soldiers can not access their pay because it can be drawn only at a bank branch in the far-off provincial capital .
18 accommodate-operating ` Parents throughout Washington also received notice from the District of Columbia on Thursday suggesting that they plan their children 's routes to school with the papal visit in mind.District transit will be operating on its regular schedule , wrote Kaya Henderson , the schools chancellor , ` but you should expect a number of detours and some service adjustments to accommodate road closures and increased customer usage .
19 accompanied-is It is because the metropolises of Beijing and Tianjin and adjacent Hebei province have become too uncoordinated and unbalanced in terms of their economic development and social progress over the past more than three decades.No matter how developed and modern Beijing is as the capital , it is no secret that its development has been accompanied by ills such as traffic congestion , too large a population , too high housing prices , serious air pollution caused by car exhaust emissions and industrial pollution from adjacent areas .
20 accomplish-has The Lord Ruler has n't even told us what he is supposed to accomplish in those mountains !
21 accomplish-keep ` We have to keep the families together , but they have to go , ' Mr. Trump said.When asked how he might accomplish this , especially given the cost , Mr. Trump responded with a question of his own .
22 accomplish-picked `` Kell said it himself -- he picked us because he knew we would try something a little different to accomplish a worthwhile goal .
23 accounted-was There was a pileup of bodies near the bolt exit , but a quick count told her that most -- if not all -- of the crew was accounted for .
24 accumulate-pays Amazon also pays its employees well and offers retirement plans , but many employees do n't stay long enough to accumulate much money .
25 accumulated-says To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
26 accused-fought As the nation 's first lady , she fought for health insurance for poor children.Even now , in her second presidential bid , Mrs. Clinton - often accused of being too cautious - has used some of her boldest language on issues of racial justice.Mr .
27 accusing-meet He declined to pursue a serious candidacy because he was too young to meet the constitutional age requirement , but from that moment on he was a national figure.When he was elected to the Georgia House of Representatives in 1965 , along with seven other black members , furious white members of the House refused to let him take his seat , accusing him of disloyalty .
28 accustoming-did Perhaps he did n't even have a destination , and was just accustoming her to the mists .
29 ached-ripped His body ached from dozens of bruises and cuts , and he did n't even know when his cloak had ripped free .
30 achieve-struggles Recalling a lifetime of civil rights struggles , she said in an interview that she was here because ` they want to take away what we fought so hard to achieve .
31 achieved-strived There was something special about Keep Venture , however -- something that the other keeps strived for , but never quite achieved .
32 acknowledge-identifying Mr. Bush , in making the comment , said the fight against gun violence should focus on identifying people with mental illnesses.Over and over , Republicans have helped Mrs. Clinton to be successful in spite of herself , as some in their party acknowledge .
33 acknowledge-read Vin waited patiently for him to acknowledge her , but he just continued to read .
34 acknowledged-briefed Some of those donors may again be tapped to write checks.The people in the room had concerns about the current course of the campaign , people briefed on what happened said , asking for anonymity in order to describe private conversations.Aides to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Biden declined comment.But Mr. Podesta acknowledged the campaign has had challenges .
35 acknowledged-noting He described his brother as capable , but acknowledged being a liability to the former Florida governor 's all-but-announced candidacy , noting that it was easy for rivals to say in debates that the nation did not need another Bush .
36 acknowledged-sounded ` Mr. Jones , in an interview on Tuesday , acknowledged having a different point of view , but he sounded a hopeful note . '
37 act-encompasses In other words , contraceptive devices that act before implantation do not end a pregnancy because the pregnancy has not begun.The Department of Health and Human Services has a similar definition of pregnancy : ` Pregnancy encompasses the period of time from implantation until delivery .
38 act-respond She could act weak , the way she had with Camon , but instincts told her that these men would n't respond well to that tactic .
39 acted-seemed I was afraid , so I acted like a proper noblewoman -- but you seemed disappointed when I did n't have more to say . ''
40 acting-relates `` Jeb Bush , who laid out a strategy to fight radical militant jihadists at the Reagan Library last month , has discussed his philosophy of peace through strength and acting through coalitions against global threats.But when Trump attacked George W. Bush , Jeb Bush stopped cold and looked directly at Trump , saying , `` You know what , as it relates to my brother , he kept us safe .
41 adams-fallen He noted that Mr. de Blasio 's popularity has fallen among black New Yorkers , and said he believed it would be healthy for the city if Mr. de Blasio had a re-election fight.Though Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Stringer are most often discussed as potential opponents for the mayor in a Democratic primary , there is a longer list of possible challengers , including Ruben Diaz Jr. , the Bronx borough president ; Eric L. Adams , the Brooklyn borough president ; Letitia James , the public advocate ; and Melissa Mark-Viverito , the City Council speaker .
42 added-makes Tom Jensen , the director of Public Policy Polling , said he added Deez Nuts to statewide survey three weeks ago because ` the name makes people laugh , and it 's a long presidential election . ''
43 added-thinking She claimed not to have spent much time thinking about Mr. Trump , but added that ` insults are not helpful to the political process . '
44 adding-means ` Democracy is always healthier whenever there 's a robust challenge and a battle of ideas , ' Mr. Jeffries said , adding , ` He should not get a free pass , but whether that means a Democratic primary challenge or a real race in the general election is something that 's above my pay grade .
45 adding-mohamed The anti-corruption agency claims instead that the money was a donation from the Middle East.Last week , Tourism and Culture Minister Mohamed Nazri Abdul Aziz explained that ' a brotherly nation ' had made the contribution ` to see certain parties win in the general election because we 're friendly to them , ' adding , ` There 's nothing wrong . '
46 address-outraised ` Mrs. Clinton 's efforts to address the issue come even as she works to help Priorities USA Action , the main super PAC supporting her candidacy , raise hundreds of millions of dollars to compete with Republican groups that have far outraised their Democratic counterparts .
47 addressed-asks Trump has put Republicans in a difficult position by taking such a hard line on immigration.Hillary Rodham Clinton broke ranks with Mr. Obama on the subject of drilling for oil and gas in the Arctic Ocean.Text messaging - an old thing - is proving to be the next big thing in campaign politics this election cycle.In a call with donors , Mr. Walker acknowledged criticisms that he lacked passion in the first debate and said that he would spend more time taking on Washington to counter the rise of outsider candidates like Mr. Trump.Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina told The Des Moines Register that there was nothing ` behind the curtain ' when it came to Mr. Trump , and he predicted the billionaire 's political downfall.Slate looks at the Black Lives Matter movement 's focus on Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont , and asks : ` If Sanders is the most racially progressive candidate in the race , ' as his team and supporters say he is , ` then why is he a target for Black Lives Matter activists , even after he addressed core concerns over police violence and criminal justice reform ?
48 adds-recovered ` This country has still not recovered from its original sin , ' she says , but adds that the ` next question ' is , ` So what do you want me to do about it ?
49 adjusted-pick His eyes adjusted , however , and he was able to pick out detail -- and a slight bit of motion -- in the forest .
50 adjusted-suggest And as we 've reported previously , the data on wages in 2015 so far does not suggest there is a meaningful acceleration on the way.A drop in the price of oil , though , has created a short-term drop in inflation numbers that may create a temporary bump in inflation-adjusted incomes for 2015 anyway.The depressing data on middle-class wages is true across almost all groups based on race and age .
51 admire-know ` You know , I have a lot of differences with Ronald Reagan , but where I completely admire him was his recognition that if you were able to verify an agreement that was negotiated with the evil empire that was hellbent on our destruction and was a far greater existential threat to us than Iran will ever be , ' then it would be worth doing , Mr. Obama said . '
52 admired-respected How prominent should Mr. Obama seek to be , especially in the first few years?One top aide said Mr. Obama respected Mr. Bush 's decision to limit his time in public after leaving office , but also admired Mr. Clinton 's aggressive use of the spotlight to press his agenda .
53 admit-were He says his mother , former first lady Barbara Bush , would not be happy to hear him admit it on television.Bush notes that he opposed a medical marijuana ballot measure in Florida because there were too many `` loopholes '' in the bill .
54 admitted-dismissed He 'd dismissed her meeting with Elend , but perhaps it worried him more than he 'd admitted .
55 admitted-entered After returning to the governorship , Mr. Perry admitted he had been ill-prepared for the demands of a national campaign and noted that , because of back surgery shortly before he entered the race , he had been in physical pain for much of that campaign .
56 advocated-assails He now echoes the Republican call to repeal President Barack Obama 's health care law , but once advocated a single-payer health care system , an even farther reaching overhaul that Cruz assails as `` wild-eyed socialism .
57 advocating-smolder Others vowed to keep the debate alive in a more measured and indirect way , by advocating for the rights of Christians and others who worry the ruling could force them to violate their religious beliefs.But either way , the clash over same-sex marriage seems likely to smolder well into the 2016 primary season , despite the hopes of many less hard-line Republicans that a Supreme Court decision would allow the party finally to move past one of the most divisive aspects of the culture wars.Mike Huckabee , the former governor of Arkansas , said that while he was certain that ` some cowardly politicians will wave the white flag , ' he was determined not to bow to a decision he saw as illegitimate . '
58 affect-called `` Kelsier called them internal metals , but it seems like they affect external things .
59 affect-re ` We 're not close , but we talk generally on issues that affect Long Island , ' Mr. King said .
60 affected-sense These metals were too diffuse to be affected by Allomancy -- indeed , most Allomancers could n't even sense them .
61 affects-described He described the raw anger of the current movement as a result of a combination of several factors , including frustration at years of rhetorical head-pats from white political leaders about changing a policing and economic system that disproportionately affects African-Americans .
62 affixed-forced They then affixed the activist label onto the president 's nominee , Sonia Sotomayor , who had in fact spent a distinctly nonactivist 17 years as a federal judge but who was then forced to offer senator after senator a stilted pledge to do nothing on the bench but ` apply the law . '
63 afford-left He 'd have rich clothing left over from before , but he would n't be able to afford such rich servants .
64 afford-squander High nobles kept different schedules from regular people ; the ability to afford , even squander , lamp oil and candles meant that the wealthy did n't have to bow before the whims of season or sun .
65 afford-throbbed Her wounds throbbed , but she could n't afford to show weakness .
66 aged-stretch When Mistress Vin stole the bracelets , he aged incredibly quickly because his body was trying to stretch back to where it should have been . ''
67 aggravating-wipe She tried to wipe away her tears , but she only succeeded in aggravating the freshly stitched wound on her cheek .
68 agree-gird With Labor Day behind them , Congress and the presidential candidates have a chance to reassess their battle plans and to gird for the next stage of the fight.Congress returns on Tuesday from its summer break to a potentially tumultuous month , beginning with a fight over the Iran nuclear agreement , despite its predetermined outcome.Democrats have already shown that they have the votes to sustain a veto of any congressional resolution trying to block the nuclear deal , shifting the focus to whether the legislation will even get to President Obama.Over the weekend , Senator Harry Reid of Nevada , the Democratic leader , called on Republicans to agree to a 60-vote threshold for approval of the measure , confident that they ca n't meet that standard for passage .
69 agree-saying His enthusiasm is growing ' Mr. Sugarman said , because ` people are responsive to what he is saying in a larger venue than has ever been the case before , and probably because they agree with him . '
70 agrees-balancing ` Everybody agrees we have to fix our infrastructure ; everybody agrees our tax system does n't work , ' said Jeffrey Zients , director of the president 's National Economic Council , who spoke of ` strategic alignment ' on tax changes and infrastructure as well as ` specific alignments ' on the earned income credit.For Republicans in Congress , however , the great strategic cause is balancing the budget .
71 agrees-balancing ` Everybody agrees we have to fix our infrastructure ; everybody agrees our tax system does n't work , ' said Jeffrey Zients , director of the president 's National Economic Council , who spoke of ` strategic alignment ' on tax changes and infrastructure as well as ` specific alignments ' on the earned income credit.For Republicans in Congress , however , the great strategic cause is balancing the budget .
72 ailed-envision The administration he pledged would be a paragon of ethics has instead conspired to mire an entire town in traffic and the governor 's office in scandal.Three and a half years ago , Mr. Christie seemed such an antidote to all that ailed the Republican brand that senior figures in the party pleaded with him to run for president as a substitute for the eventual nominee , Mitt Romney.But now , a staggering 55 percent of Republican primary voters say that they can not envision voting for Mr. Christie , according to an NBC-Wall Street Journal Poll .
73 alerting-go After her first run-in with a high prelan , some months ago -- and the subsequent alerting of an Inquisitor -- she 'd been apprehensive to even go near one .
74 alienate-competing The many conservatives competing with Mr. Walker in Iowa , like Ted Cruz or Mr. Huckabee , have won loyal but narrow support by embracing messages that alienate much of the party .
75 alienating-offer His ability to appeal to conservatives - thanks to his high-profile fight against organized labor in Wisconsin - without alienating the rest of the party instantly made him a formidable contender.But the next part of the primary season may offer a very different lesson .
76 align-has But he has nonetheless raised doubts about his preparedness for a presidential campaign.Early on , he ` punted ' on questions about evolution ; he said he did not know whether President Obama was a Christian ; he argued that his experience facing down protesters in Madison prepared him to defeat the Islamic State ; and he quickly shifted positions on ethanol and immigration to align with the preferences of Iowa voters.More recently , Mr. Walker has struggled to find the right balance between appealing to the party 's conservative base and the rest of the party , particularly electability-minded donors .
77 align-has When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
78 alleged-pursued She has , in other words , gone back to being what Mr. Obama 's supporters alleged in 2008 : a polarizing figure , just as Mr. Obama is today.What 's notable about the recent decline in her approval rating is that it has returned to Mrs. Clinton 's apparently natural level of public support.Her ratings started out high as first lady in 1993 , as is often the case with that role , but dropped to the mid-40s when she pursued health reform .
79 allocate-fundraising `` Twitter has been a successful avenue of fundraising for campaigns in the past , and this will make it even more attractive to campaigns as they look at how to allocate precious dollars , '' said Vincent Harris , a digital strategist for the Paul campaign .
80 allowed-apologize She reiterated the apology in a late-night note to voters on Facebook.Clinton 's late-arriving mea culpa came just 24 hours after she insisted in an interview with The Associated Press she did n't need to apologize because `` what I did was allowed . ''
81 allowed-apologize ` In an interview with The Associated Press during a Labor Day campaign swing through Iowa , Mrs. Clinton said on Monday that she did not need to apologize for using a private email account and server while at the State Department because ` what I did was allowed .
82 allowed-bear No Terrisman steward is allowed to have a family , or even to bear children . ''
83 allowed-maintain He allowed her out for a short time each night to maintain her skills , but she was n't allowed any extreme , exciting leaps .
84 allowed-reiterated She reiterated the apology in a late-night note to voters on Facebook.Clinton 's late-arriving mea culpa came just 24 hours after she insisted in an interview with The Associated Press she did n't need to apologize because `` what I did was allowed . ''
85 allows-finds The Lord Ruler apparently finds this system troubling because of the freedom it allows the aristocracy .
86 allows-raising There is a process in place that allows for inspections , but it could take over three weeks for international inspectors to get access after raising a complaint .
87 alluded-mention ` But Mrs. Clinton , who has yet to use the ride service , was careful not to mention Uber by name , even as she alluded to it .
88 alluding-angeles `` Donald Trump makes time for Ronald Reagan , too , alluding to the 40th president 's support of Franklin Roosevelt and the New Deal as a defense for his own conservative makeover after years of taking liberal positions.Even if Wednesday night 's Republican debate were n't taking place at the Reagan Presidential Library outside Los Angeles , some of the candidates taking part would be likely to mention the GOP hero .
89 am-finished I am sorry to be so dismissive , but I am nearly finished with the translation ... . ''
90 am-hope `` I am going to the palace , but I sincerely hope I do n't run into the Lord Ruler himself .
91 am-intimidating `` They should know that I am anything but intimidating . ''
92 am-remains Fortunately , it appears that House Renoux remains free of suspicion -- though I myself am something of a concern to some of the nobility . ''
93 am-said `` Ah , '' Kelsier said , `` but being an annoyance is something that I am very good at .
94 amassed-recalled I n 2012 , his campaign amassed about one million cellphone numbers but , an aide recalled , never set up a campaign team to exploit them.In those campaign cycles , political text messages could seem more jarring . '
95 amaze-learned ``` Unfortunately , I 've learned next to nothing about the Inquisitors -- though the politicking within the regular Ministry ranks continues to amaze me .
96 amazes-try `` You know , '' he said , `` it amazes me sometimes that we even try .
97 analyze-welcomed ` Republican Party leaders in several states welcomed Mr. Cruz to the nominating contest , but they declined to analyze his chances since their primaries and caucuses are at least 10 months away .
98 analyzing-rejected It began issuing orders to phone companies to turn over their customers ' calling records.Its orders were based on a secret interpretation of a provision of the U.S.A. Patriot Act , known as Section 215 , which permits the F.B.I. to obtain business records deemed ` relevant ' to a national security investigation.The theory , accepted by the intelligence court but rejected in a recent appeals court ruling , is that everyone 's records are relevant to investigations hunting for terrorists because analyzing indirect links between callers can , in theory , reveal hidden relationships and sleeper cells.After praising the program as crucial to preventing terrorist attacks , intelligence agency officials now say that it has never thwarted one .
99 anchored-pushed He , of course , Pushed back -- but Vin anchored herself against the bronze roof and flared Steel , Pushing with a firm effort .
100 angling-worried But other Republican candidates , like Mr. Perry , a former Texas governor , and Mr. Rubio , are angling to appeal to the same voters , and Mr. Rubio and his supporters have more financial resources than Mr. Walker does right now.But on Monday , Mr. Walker did n't sound worried at all .
101 announce-beat President Obama 's 2008 campaign tried to announce his vice-presidential choice by text , though news organizations beat him to it .
102 announce-preferring Those three men , as well as Mr. Santorum , a former Pennsylvania senator , and Mr. Perry , a former governor of Texas , plan to announce their presidential intentions soon.Yet most of the Republicans are also reluctant and even evasive when it comes to laying out detailed plans , preferring instead to criticize Mr. Obama 's war strategy.The fallout from the American-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 has cast a specter over Republicans as they contemplate new deployments there , restraining some of them while tripping up others .
103 announce-sponsoring ` But we 're not counting on that , ' the president stressed , ` and that 's the thing I want to emphasize , because even over the last several weeks and today , as we announce the deal , what 's been striking to me is that , increasingly , the critics are shifting off the nuclear issue , and they 're moving into , ` Well , even if the nuclear issue is dealt with , they 're still going to be sponsoring terrorism , and they 're going to get this sanctions relief .
104 annoy-see I 'm exactly what he needs -- someone lowborn enough to annoy his father , but inexperienced enough not to see the truth .
105 annoy-seems `` Actually , I got over my ` childish temperament ' some time ago , Father -- it just seems that my natural inclinations work even better to annoy you .
106 annoy-sitting `` He is sitting with you because he knows that it will annoy his family , '' Sazed said .
107 anointing-exert A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
108 anointing-exert A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
109 answering-avoiding Well , not even really avoiding it , but not answering either .
110 answering-made Kasich made no direct comments about Mr. Trump , and even avoided saying his name when answering a question about the real estate mogul 's view of the electorate . '
111 anticipated-be Things went a little more quickly than you anticipated , but you should be proud of yourself . ''
112 anticipated-be WASHINGTON - To some Republican presidential candidates , it 's better to be with the popular pope than against him.Marco Rubio , Rand Paul and Ted Cruz have deep policy differences with Pope Francis , but the senators will break off campaign travel to attend his address to Congress later this month , a centerpiece of his eagerly anticipated visit to the United States.Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush , a devout Catholic , will attend Mass with Francis in Washington .
113 apologize-hears At the second GOP presidential debate , Bush demanded that Trump apologize to her.Trump said he hears `` phenomenal things '' about Columba Bush but would n't apologize .
114 apologizing-dropping He , too , ultimately said he was sorry.While Clinton 's apology may ease the anxiety among some Democrats , it 's unlikely to end the political fallout.Republican National Committee spokeswoman Allison Moore suggested Tuesday that Clinton was only apologizing because `` she got caught and is dropping in the polls .
115 appeal-survived He then survived a recall election in a state that has voted for Democrats in seven consecutive presidential elections and also won re-election to a second term.But unlike most favorites of conservatives , Mr. Walker has the résumé and temperament of a candidate who could appeal broadly throughout the party , including to the party 's establishment .
116 appeal-tolerate But that strategy is untenable in today 's Democratic Party , which will demand a far more liberal candidate than conservative voters are willing to tolerate.Even if she did run a campaign to appeal to these voters , it probably would n't work .
117 appear-burn It 's safe to burn -- it wo n't kill you -- but it does n't appear to do anything useful .
118 appear-burn Instinctively , she tried to burn iron , expecting the blue lines to appear -- but , of course , she had no iron to burn .
119 appear-continue Yeden did n't appear to like that idea much , but he did n't continue the argument .
120 appear-has Sometimes these abilities appear in skaa -- but only if that skaa has noble blood in his or her near ancestry .
121 appear-has We created a cover story saying that Lady Valette has taken sick , but rumors are starting to appear .
122 appear-has ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
123 appear-mentioned The Greek debt crisis was mentioned often , though the potential ripple effects for the United States economy appear much weaker than they did a few years ago when Greece 's position in the eurozone was first at risk .
124 appeared-assumed She 'd assumed that he was using horses , but it appeared that there was a better way .
125 appeared-clinton Mrs. Clinton still has considerable strengths , but if she appeared politically invincible , it is unlikely that Mr. Biden and his supporters would be making the phone calls to supporters , which were first reported in The Wall Street Journal .
126 appeared-enjoying Most of them appeared bored -- and a few even seemed to be enjoying themselves , turning and joking with one another as the beheadings continued .
127 appeared-put Hammond put a cloak around her shoulders , but she appeared too tired to care .
128 appeared-resist It appeared that not even Yeden could resist Kelsier 's charisma for an extended period of time .
129 appeared-were The young girl 's eyes were red from lack of sleep , but she appeared unharmed .
130 appears-fractured `` The bone is fractured , though it appears only in one place . ''
131 appears-informed The strategy appears to have worked but perhaps not in the way Mr. McConnell intended.At least two Democratic senators who have been voting with Mr. McConnell against the Iran deal - Chuck Schumer of New York and Benjamin Cardin of Maryland - informed their colleagues on Wednesday that while they still opposed the Iran deal , they would not join with Mr. McConnell on Thursday in his effort to bring up a politically charged amendment.The reversal by Mr. Schumer and Mr. Cardin showed that rather than breaking , Democrats are becoming more united in their opposition to Mr. McConnell 's tactics , which they decry as overtly political and a waste of time .
132 appears-persecutes No one remembers why the Lord Ruler persecutes the Terris people , but I suspect that it has something to do with those packmen -- their leader , Rashek , appears to be a very contrary man .
133 applying-do It 's like the regular obligators do n't even care about the world outside , except for the prestige they earn by being the most clever or successful in applying the Lord Ruler 's dictates .
134 applying-rationalizes It in no way rationalizes the kinds of sponsorship from terrorism or destabilizing activities that they engage in , but I think that when we are able to see their country and their culture in specific terms , historical terms , as opposed to just applying a broad brush , that 's when you have the possibility at least of some movement .
135 appointed-dressed The servants Camon had appointed , however , were dressed as minor noblemen -- they were allowed to wear colorful vests , and they stood a little confidently .
136 appointed-tapped He appointed conservative Antonin Scalia to the Supreme Court but also tapped Sandra Day O'Connor and Anthony Kennedy - swing votes who protected abortion rights and helped legalize same-sex marriage .
137 appreciate-disappointed `` I appreciate your administration 's attention to this issue , but I was disappointed to learn that the United States would accept only 10,000 Syrian refugees next year , '' O'Malley wrote .
138 appreciate-holding `` I appreciate the help you 've given me , but you do n't need to keep holding my hand .
139 approach-undertaken In 2009 , worn down by the long and unpopular Iraq war undertaken by Mr. Bush , about 53 percent of Republicans said the United States should ` mind its own business ' internationally and let other countries get along the best they can on their own , according to a Pew Research Center survey.But the shocking images of terrorism and Mr. Obama 's approach to them have set off much concern among Republican voters , said Senator Kelly Ayotte , Republican of New Hampshire .
140 approached-frowned Renoux frowned , but said no more , for a servant approached and drew his attention .
141 approached-grew The streets grew even more crowded as Vin 's crew approached the fountain square .
142 approached-stolen `` Actually , '' Elend noted , `` I approached her first -- if only because she had stolen my reading spot . ''
143 approaching-matching ` In Ellison 's view , the Clinton campaign should not be content with approaching , or even matching , Obama 's turnout numbers .
144 approaching-was There was a window , though its shutters were closed against approaching gloom .
145 appropriating-take The rally will take place - where else - on the Capitol 's lawn.The issue is particularly tense because the question of appropriating money to the organization has become entangled in the debate over the budget , which has to be dealt with before the government runs out of spending authority on ` Sept. 30 .
146 approving-lifted A veto override must pass both the House and Senate by a two-thirds vote.Approving new sanctions , even many set to be lifted as part of the accord , is one possible path , said several aides to lawmakers , because it would both send a message to Tehran and the White House and put Democrats in a difficult position.Under the agreement reached with six world powers , Iran would be released from congressionally imposed sanctions related to its nuclear program .
147 are-ask He said people need to ask candidates like Trump about foreign policy because `` these are extraordinarily dangerous times .
148 are-be In no small measure because of Wolfowitz 's erroneous predictions , the neocon brand came to be ridiculed during the early stages of the Iraq war , only to be vindicated somewhat by the triumph of the 2007 troop surge , which quelled Sunni violence and stabilized the Shia-dominated government.Throughout that period , not every hawk self-identified as a neocon , including Fontaine , who told me , '' Where I come down on this is I believe in the promotion of human rights and democracy , but there are times when you have to have pragmatic relationships with autocracies . ''
149 are-be In no small measure because of Wolfowitz 's erroneous predictions , the neocon brand came to be ridiculed during the early stages of the Iraq war , only to be vindicated somewhat by the triumph of the 2007 troop surge , which quelled Sunni violence and stabilized the Shia-dominated government.Throughout that period , not every hawk self-identified as a neocon , including Fontaine , who told me , '' Where I come down on this is I believe in the promotion of human rights and democracy , but there are times when you have to have pragmatic relationships with autocracies . ''
150 are-be ` Asked if he believed that , given the depth of Iran 's civil society , which in 2009 launched a ` green revolution ' challenging clerical rule , the forces there for greater integration with the world would be empowered by this deal , the president said : ` With respect to Iran , it is a great civilization , but it also has an authoritarian theocracy in charge that is anti-American , anti-Israeli , anti-Semitic , sponsors terrorism , and there are a whole host of real profound differences that we have with them , ' said the president .
151 are-be ` But we 're not counting on that , ' the president stressed , ` and that 's the thing I want to emphasize , because even over the last several weeks and today , as we announce the deal , what 's been striking to me is that , increasingly , the critics are shifting off the nuclear issue , and they 're moving into , ` Well , even if the nuclear issue is dealt with , they 're still going to be sponsoring terrorism , and they 're going to get this sanctions relief .
152 are-be The so-called moderate in Iran is not going to be suddenly somebody who we feel reflects universal issues like human rights , but there are better or worse approaches that Iran can take relative to our interests and the interests of our allies , and we should see where we can encourage that better approach .
153 are-be At the same time , Rubio and Carson have endorsed the use of IUDs and the morning after pill despite the view prevalent in the anti-abortion community that these contraceptive devices are abortifacients.It will be interesting to track their responses when challenged by social conservatives as the campaign progresses.Even more interesting will be tracking the voting intentions of women as Nov. 8 , 2016 , approaches .
154 are-be ` And they will be more important in 2016 , because they are starting to make up a greater portion of the electorate .
155 are-be He noted that Mr. de Blasio 's popularity has fallen among black New Yorkers , and said he believed it would be healthy for the city if Mr. de Blasio had a re-election fight.Though Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Stringer are most often discussed as potential opponents for the mayor in a Democratic primary , there is a longer list of possible challengers , including Ruben Diaz Jr. , the Bronx borough president ; Eric L. Adams , the Brooklyn borough president ; Letitia James , the public advocate ; and Melissa Mark-Viverito , the City Council speaker .
156 are-be `` Trump will be Trump , Ben will be Ben , and the contrast could n't be clearer , '' Bennett said.In contrast to other campaigns , no one has been playing Trump during Carson 's debate preparation sessions , which are somewhat unusual .
157 are-be `` Trump will be Trump , Ben will be Ben , and the contrast could n't be clearer , '' Bennett said.In contrast to other campaigns , no one has been playing Trump during Carson 's debate preparation sessions , which are somewhat unusual .
158 are-be `` Trump will be Trump , Ben will be Ben , and the contrast could n't be clearer , '' Bennett said.In contrast to other campaigns , no one has been playing Trump during Carson 's debate preparation sessions , which are somewhat unusual .
159 are-be At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
160 are-be At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
161 are-be At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
162 are-be At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
163 are-be ` That 's an example of how this is so different : There could be a plan to do something in the future , but the kind of folks these are , they 're unpredictable , unreliable , ' Mr. Comey said.In response to calls on Twitter by the Islamic State for Americans to stage attacks on the Fourth of July , F.B.I. officials in Washington told agents across the country in the weeks leading up to the holiday to arrest suspects under surveillance if they believed they had enough evidence to bring charges .
164 are-be The plan failed , but Mr. Graham has made the case that Republicans are in danger of further losing Hispanic support because of opposition to immigration reform.Strategists say that fund-raising will be an obstacle for Mr. Graham but that if his candidacy gains traction he could benefit from South Carolina 's status as a the second state to hold a primary .
165 are-be `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
166 are-be `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
167 are-be `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
168 are-be `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
169 are-be The opening has also sparked speculation that Vice President Joe Biden could be a late entry into the Democratic contest.But it 's the surveys showing voters have questions about Clinton 's integrity that are the most troubling for her campaign.In a recent Quinnipiac University poll , 61 percent of voters said they did not consider Clinton honest and trustworthy compared to 34 percent who did ascribe those qualities to her .
170 are-be `` Alloys -- like pewter -- are even trickier , since the metal percentages have to be mixed just right , if you want maximum power .
171 are-be You should probably take off your cloak -- the people here are loyal to us , but it always pays to be careful . ''
172 are-be `` You might be heir to a powerful house , Elend , but the rest of us are n't as important .
173 are-be A lot.A wide range of political science research suggests that if you want to know who will win the presidency , the state of the economy - and especially how economic conditions are changing - matters a great deal , perhaps even more than how charismatic the candidates are or how much money they raise.The election is 16 months away , but knowing what we know now , what should we expect the economic backdrop to be when Americans choose their next president ?
174 are-be ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
175 are-be What he 's really saying is that nobody who is n't wealthy should be able to run for President because only the superrich can be untainted by political corruption.But most politicians are n't rich , which means they have to raise money from others .
176 are-be The plaintiffs also argued that the discriminatory impact was intentional and were asking Judge Schroeder to reimpose federal oversight of voting law changes here and in Texas , which legal experts say will be hard to achieve even if the contested laws are overturned .
177 are-be ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
178 are-be ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
179 are-be ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
180 are-be But too many texts can cause a much more visceral reaction - perhaps turning off a voter completely and irrevocably.Excess ` can be unforgivable on text , ' said Laura Olin , who helped manage the Obama campaign 's text messaging in 2012 , ` because you are getting into people 's faces . '
181 are-break Perhaps the most significant development in 2014 is the ability of Republican candidates to break with hard right conservative orthodoxy -- even candidates whose own roots are in the hard right .
182 are-call `` The man did call us Mistings , Vin -- though the appellation was a bit hasty , since neither Dox nor I are technically Mistings .
183 are-call `` What we now call Keepers were far more common back then -- perhaps even more common than Mistings are among modern nobility .
184 are-call `` The man did call us Mistings , Vin -- though the appellation was a bit hasty , since neither Dox nor I are technically Mistings .
185 are-call `` What we now call Keepers were far more common back then -- perhaps even more common than Mistings are among modern nobility .
186 are-come WASHINGTON - The $ 4 trillion budget that President Obama released Monday is more utopian vision than pragmatic blueprint for his final years in office , but buried in the document are kernels of proposals that could take root even with a hostile Republican Congress.In his penultimate budget , Mr. Obama proclaimed victory in the long climb from deep recession and said the time had come to loosen the strictures of austerity to invest in the nation 's future , laying out a plan likely to shape the 2016 presidential contests .
187 are-come In no small measure because of Wolfowitz 's erroneous predictions , the neocon brand came to be ridiculed during the early stages of the Iraq war , only to be vindicated somewhat by the triumph of the 2007 troop surge , which quelled Sunni violence and stabilized the Shia-dominated government.Throughout that period , not every hawk self-identified as a neocon , including Fontaine , who told me , '' Where I come down on this is I believe in the promotion of human rights and democracy , but there are times when you have to have pragmatic relationships with autocracies . ''
188 are-come `` Afraid to come to the shop because the Inquisitors are looking for her .
189 are-come Some of them may come across as reasonable and thoughtful , but in reality they are anything but.Mr .
190 are-deny Hillary Rodham Clinton hinted at the party 's line of attack on Friday when she said , ` As love and joy flood our streets today , it is hard to imagine how anyone could deny the full protection of our laws to any of our fellow Americans - but there are those who would .
191 are-drop But people are very apprehensive about her because they always feel like there 's a shoe to drop .
192 are-get ` But we 're not counting on that , ' the president stressed , ` and that 's the thing I want to emphasize , because even over the last several weeks and today , as we announce the deal , what 's been striking to me is that , increasingly , the critics are shifting off the nuclear issue , and they 're moving into , ` Well , even if the nuclear issue is dealt with , they 're still going to be sponsoring terrorism , and they 're going to get this sanctions relief .
193 are-get Informants generally get their information from servants , but most aristocrats are not fools .
194 are-get Technology firms like Blue State Digital , on the left , and IMGE , on the right , are trying to perfect ways to allow voters to authorize donations by texting.But asking for money too often can get on voters ' nerves .
195 are-has Those three men , as well as Mr. Santorum , a former Pennsylvania senator , and Mr. Perry , a former governor of Texas , plan to announce their presidential intentions soon.Yet most of the Republicans are also reluctant and even evasive when it comes to laying out detailed plans , preferring instead to criticize Mr. Obama 's war strategy.The fallout from the American-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 has cast a specter over Republicans as they contemplate new deployments there , restraining some of them while tripping up others .
196 are-has ` Paul - who has frequently visited black colleges and spoken out against discriminatory patterns in policing and sentencing - may have been particularly committed to peeling away some of the core Democratic electorate , but other Republicans are clearly reading the same voting totals .
197 are-has ` But in a sign of the company 's diverse , bipartisan appeal , particularly among consumers , its roster of advocates and detractors are blurring familiar demographic and ideological divisions.Republican candidates are embracing Uber not just as a paragon of their free-market ethos and distaste for entrenched , government-protected industries , but also as an electoral strategy for building bridges to traditionally Democratic cities , where the company has thrived .
198 are-has ` But in a sign of the company 's diverse , bipartisan appeal , particularly among consumers , its roster of advocates and detractors are blurring familiar demographic and ideological divisions.Republican candidates are embracing Uber not just as a paragon of their free-market ethos and distaste for entrenched , government-protected industries , but also as an electoral strategy for building bridges to traditionally Democratic cities , where the company has thrived .
199 are-has The fact that so many are threatened by him is a sign of how the Republican Party ca n't deal with some deviations from conventional thought , '' she said.Those attacks have dwindled of late , no doubt because Paul has struggled to raise money , mount a disciplined campaign and break through the primal roar of the Trump movement .
200 are-has In what he says is his effort to restore ` our Christian heritage , ' Mr. Lane 's American Renewal Project has already shown its influence in Iowa by helping to unseat three State Supreme Court justices who voted to allow same-sex marriage.But Mr. Lane 's ambitions are national - he focused on battleground states in 2014 and has built an email list of 100,000 pastors around the country.His goal now is to get 1,000 pastors to run for public office , and their potential support has drawn a virtual pilgrimage of conservative candidates eager to join the tours Mr. Lane organizes to Israel and to his ` Pastors and Pews ' events . '
201 are-has Jack Markell , of Delaware , has a solid policy record but little name recognition or political base.Then there are the former governors , who may be stronger .
202 are-has It began issuing orders to phone companies to turn over their customers ' calling records.Its orders were based on a secret interpretation of a provision of the U.S.A. Patriot Act , known as Section 215 , which permits the F.B.I. to obtain business records deemed ` relevant ' to a national security investigation.The theory , accepted by the intelligence court but rejected in a recent appeals court ruling , is that everyone 's records are relevant to investigations hunting for terrorists because analyzing indirect links between callers can , in theory , reveal hidden relationships and sleeper cells.After praising the program as crucial to preventing terrorist attacks , intelligence agency officials now say that it has never thwarted one .
203 are-has He noted that Mr. de Blasio 's popularity has fallen among black New Yorkers , and said he believed it would be healthy for the city if Mr. de Blasio had a re-election fight.Though Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Stringer are most often discussed as potential opponents for the mayor in a Democratic primary , there is a longer list of possible challengers , including Ruben Diaz Jr. , the Bronx borough president ; Eric L. Adams , the Brooklyn borough president ; Letitia James , the public advocate ; and Melissa Mark-Viverito , the City Council speaker .
204 are-has At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
205 are-has At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
206 are-has The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to publicly discuss national security matters.Some F.B.I. investigators privately disagree with the intense focus , which draws resources away from other investigations and sometimes has led to frustration inside the bureau and the Justice Department.After years of watching for large-scale plots , investigators are now trying to identify and prevent shootings and stabbings - violence on a scale that is common in major American cities but has never been a priority for the F.B.I. Preventing Islamic State-inspired violence is a priority , and current and former investigators say they feel tremendous pressure to succeed .
207 are-has When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
208 are-has The opening has also sparked speculation that Vice President Joe Biden could be a late entry into the Democratic contest.But it 's the surveys showing voters have questions about Clinton 's integrity that are the most troubling for her campaign.In a recent Quinnipiac University poll , 61 percent of voters said they did not consider Clinton honest and trustworthy compared to 34 percent who did ascribe those qualities to her .
209 are-has We created a cover story saying that Lady Valette has taken sick , but rumors are starting to appear .
210 are-has One that has n't been discovered -- probably because atium and gold are too valuable to forge into different alloys .
211 are-has ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
212 are-has And circumstances are anything but optimal for him : He faces a wide field of candidates , including several who are better financed and beloved by mainstream donors Jeb Bush , hold greater appeal to conservative voters who dominate the primary process Scott Walker , are agile public speakers with persuasive biographies Mr. Rubio , or are better liked by Republican voters all of the above.At his announcement , Mr. Christie sought political rebirth , as he has before , by relying on his powers as a narrator , and mythologizer , of his own story.Running for president is a new and bigger stage , though , and both Mr. Christie 's stagecraft and his oratory showed room for improvement .
213 are-has It remains well funded - earning close to $ 1 billion a year in oil revenues and taxes , according to Treasury Department estimates - and has expanded to other countries , including Libya , Afghanistan and the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt.Current and former counterterrorism and intelligence officials , as well as some lawmakers , who closely monitor risks overseas say that although the risks of the Islamic State are real , the overall threat is more complex and requires a nuanced strategy .
214 are-has It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
215 are-has The crisis in Greece has faded , for now at least.But on Thursday , when Mr. Draghi presides at a regularly scheduled meeting of the central bank 's Governing Council , he will need to address the welter of new and in some cases unexpected threats from around the globe , which could create pressure for yet more stimulus spending.A slowdown in the economy of China and other emerging markets has prompted wild swings in stock prices , although markets were relatively calm on Wednesday.The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates in the United States as early as this month , possibly causing borrowing costs to rise in the eurozone before growth is strong enough.Some economists are even warning again about the eurozone 's lapsing into deflation , a broad decline in prices that is considered poisonous to growth and employment.An influx of refugees into Europe from Syria and other conflict zones , while outside the purview of monetary policy , adds to the uncertainty .
216 are-has A dearth of tough primaries will most likely leave incumbents ' checkbooks and stamina intact for the general election.A primary drama of sorts has emerged in the Democratic Party , however , where battle lines are drawn less between dogmas than between establishment-chosen candidates and those trying to bust through the Beltway gatekeepers.In Illinois , for instance , Representative Tammy Duckworth , a Democrat favored to take on the deeply vulnerable Republican senator , Mark S. Kirk , is feeling pressure from supporters of Andrea Zopp , a former president of the Chicago Urban League .
217 are-have ` Paul - who has frequently visited black colleges and spoken out against discriminatory patterns in policing and sentencing - may have been particularly committed to peeling away some of the core Democratic electorate , but other Republicans are clearly reading the same voting totals .
218 are-have Trump may have a lot of money , but he is refusing to spend it on his campaign , like by buying television ads , spending on ballot access , or paying for campaign rallies , The Wall Street Journal reports.The fact that former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas , Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , and Mr. Santorum are continuing their campaigns despite fund-raising woes shows how ` super PACs ' can keep failing campaigns alive , Politico reports.Connie 's Fried Chicken in Tupelo , Miss. , has a small dining area , maybe enough to seat 30 or 40 .
219 are-have Although there 's little evidence of a crime wave outside of a few major cities where homicides have increased , the political rationale seems obvious : The candidates are playing to the G.O.P. base , a normal part of the primary season.Another possibility , though , is that Republicans are also still searching for the best angle of attack against Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Democrats , who remain narrow betting market favorites in 2016 .
220 are-have About 4,100 Afghan soldiers and police officers have been killed and about 7,800 wounded , according to statistics provided by an official with the American-led coalition here.A range of interviews with army and police commanders and regional government officials in crucial battleground areas indicated that even though the Afghan forces have nominally met their goal of maintaining a presence in every city and all but a very few district centers , they are often functionally penned in by the Taliban , rarely mounting patrols , much less taking territory back.At the same time , they say the insurgents have increased their influence in many areas , even near cities , giving them the ability to move freely and mount intensified attacks on the Afghan forces .
221 are-have ` Your family is calling you and telling you they have run out of food , but you can not send them money , ' Lieutenant Javed said , describing the plight of soldiers who are often the sole breadwinners for large families .
222 are-have She claimed not to have spent much time thinking about Mr. Trump , but added that ` insults are not helpful to the political process . '
223 are-have And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
224 are-have And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
225 are-have You watch the news reports preceding the Arab Spring , but certainly since the Arab Spring started to turn into more an Arab Winter , and you weep for the children of this region , not just the ones who are being displaced in Syria , not just the ones who are currently suffering from humanitarian situations in Yemen , but just the ordinary Iranian youth or Saudi youth or Kuwaiti youth who are asking themselves , ` Why is it that we do n't have the same prospects that some kid in Finland , Singapore , China , Indonesia , the United States ?
226 are-have You watch the news reports preceding the Arab Spring , but certainly since the Arab Spring started to turn into more an Arab Winter , and you weep for the children of this region , not just the ones who are being displaced in Syria , not just the ones who are currently suffering from humanitarian situations in Yemen , but just the ordinary Iranian youth or Saudi youth or Kuwaiti youth who are asking themselves , ` Why is it that we do n't have the same prospects that some kid in Finland , Singapore , China , Indonesia , the United States ?
227 are-have ` The 2016 presidential candidates and their individual-candidate super PACs are wiping out the nation 's anticorruption candidate contribution limits , ' said Fred Wertheimer , the president of Democracy 21 , which favors tighter limits on political money.But the looser rules for super PACs have also helped expand the pool of candidates , letting a small number of very wealthy people jump-start contenders who might otherwise not make it to the first primary contests next year .
228 are-have At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
229 are-have At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
230 are-have At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
231 are-have `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
232 are-have `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
233 are-have `` Alloys -- like pewter -- are even trickier , since the metal percentages have to be mixed just right , if you want maximum power .
234 are-have They are rowdy , even violent -- far different from the quiet , discerning Terris philosophers and holy men that I have known .
235 are-have `` And there are always those who try to use the name of the Survivor , but I do not believe that any man could have lived through the Pits .
236 are-have You might have grown attached to her , but I doubt her own feelings are genuine . ''
237 are-have We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
238 are-have We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
239 are-have We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
240 are-have Republicans in the House and Senate armed services committees have now proposed budgets consistent with the $ 499 billion in the 2011 budget agreement but suggested raising the O.C.O. account from Mr. Obama 's $ 51 billion to around $ 90 billion.The nation 's security needs are not static .
241 are-have The strategy appears to have worked but perhaps not in the way Mr. McConnell intended.At least two Democratic senators who have been voting with Mr. McConnell against the Iran deal - Chuck Schumer of New York and Benjamin Cardin of Maryland - informed their colleagues on Wednesday that while they still opposed the Iran deal , they would not join with Mr. McConnell on Thursday in his effort to bring up a politically charged amendment.The reversal by Mr. Schumer and Mr. Cardin showed that rather than breaking , Democrats are becoming more united in their opposition to Mr. McConnell 's tactics , which they decry as overtly political and a waste of time .
242 are-have Eligible voters of Mexican origin had an even lower turnout , 42 percent.An estimated 5.4 million Latinos are eligible to become American citizens but have yet to take that step , making them by far the largest pool of non-naturalized immigrants who could become eligible to vote by 2016 .
243 are-have Clinton and her supporters have handled Mr. Biden gingerly , but they are skeptical he would enter the race to a surge of excitement .
244 are-interbreeding That 's changed , probably through interbreeding , but most skaa are still kind of short . ''
245 are-is ` This is Bush land , ' she said , but added , ` There are a lot of Republican establishment givers who are n't wanting to support the establishment .
246 are-is ` This is Bush land , ' she said , but added , ` There are a lot of Republican establishment givers who are n't wanting to support the establishment .
247 are-is There is no serious reason to think this polarity will shift anytime soon.But elections are very rarely won by major realignments ; most of the time , they 're won around the margins - and the margins of the black vote are more malleable than they might initially appear .
248 are-is There is no serious reason to think this polarity will shift anytime soon.But elections are very rarely won by major realignments ; most of the time , they 're won around the margins - and the margins of the black vote are more malleable than they might initially appear .
249 are-is ` Certainly the G.O.P. and Trump are giving her good ammo , and it is funny , but she 's like a magician - ` Look over here , not at what 's really going on , '' ' said Richard Tafel , a Republican strategist , pointing to the inquiries related to her use of private email as secretary of state.Attacking the Republicans is not just an applause-line strategy , though .
250 are-is Although there 's little evidence of a crime wave outside of a few major cities where homicides have increased , the political rationale seems obvious : The candidates are playing to the G.O.P. base , a normal part of the primary season.Another possibility , though , is that Republicans are also still searching for the best angle of attack against Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Democrats , who remain narrow betting market favorites in 2016 .
251 are-is Whether he will do so is perhaps the biggest question of the race , in part because his performance to date has provided so many reasons to doubt he can do it.Nowhere are Mr. Walker 's advantages more obvious than in Iowa , where he holds a persistent lead in early polls .
252 are-is In such a close contest , it might seem reasonable to argue that Mrs. Clinton 's unfavorable ratings are hugely important.But the case for that argument is n't so strong .
253 are-is The fundamentals are strongest when an incumbent president is on the ballot because the feelings about the president are so strong and firm on either side .
254 are-is ` Your family is calling you and telling you they have run out of food , but you can not send them money , ' Lieutenant Javed said , describing the plight of soldiers who are often the sole breadwinners for large families .
255 are-is At stake , they contend , is the economic security of workers who are uncompensated and unprotected by the traditional structures of employment , even as the owners of the technology are enriched by stock offerings .
256 are-is WASHINGTON - The $ 4 trillion budget that President Obama released Monday is more utopian vision than pragmatic blueprint for his final years in office , but buried in the document are kernels of proposals that could take root even with a hostile Republican Congress.In his penultimate budget , Mr. Obama proclaimed victory in the long climb from deep recession and said the time had come to loosen the strictures of austerity to invest in the nation 's future , laying out a plan likely to shape the 2016 presidential contests .
257 are-is In interviews , campaign pollsters argue that such polls , conducted largely by media organizations and universities , rely on feedback from many Republicans who are unlikely to vote because the polls do not verify the party registration or voting history of respondents - a fact that those conducting the surveys concede.New data provided to The Times by Civis Analytics , a firm aligned with Democrats and founded by the former chief analytics officer of the Obama re-election campaign , shows that there is merit to those concerns , but not enough to call Mr. Trump 's lead into question .
258 are-is In no small measure because of Wolfowitz 's erroneous predictions , the neocon brand came to be ridiculed during the early stages of the Iraq war , only to be vindicated somewhat by the triumph of the 2007 troop surge , which quelled Sunni violence and stabilized the Shia-dominated government.Throughout that period , not every hawk self-identified as a neocon , including Fontaine , who told me , '' Where I come down on this is I believe in the promotion of human rights and democracy , but there are times when you have to have pragmatic relationships with autocracies . ''
259 are-is ` Asked if he believed that , given the depth of Iran 's civil society , which in 2009 launched a ` green revolution ' challenging clerical rule , the forces there for greater integration with the world would be empowered by this deal , the president said : ` With respect to Iran , it is a great civilization , but it also has an authoritarian theocracy in charge that is anti-American , anti-Israeli , anti-Semitic , sponsors terrorism , and there are a whole host of real profound differences that we have with them , ' said the president .
260 are-is ` But we 're not counting on that , ' the president stressed , ` and that 's the thing I want to emphasize , because even over the last several weeks and today , as we announce the deal , what 's been striking to me is that , increasingly , the critics are shifting off the nuclear issue , and they 're moving into , ` Well , even if the nuclear issue is dealt with , they 're still going to be sponsoring terrorism , and they 're going to get this sanctions relief .
261 are-is And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
262 are-is And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
263 are-is And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
264 are-is And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
265 are-is You watch the news reports preceding the Arab Spring , but certainly since the Arab Spring started to turn into more an Arab Winter , and you weep for the children of this region , not just the ones who are being displaced in Syria , not just the ones who are currently suffering from humanitarian situations in Yemen , but just the ordinary Iranian youth or Saudi youth or Kuwaiti youth who are asking themselves , ` Why is it that we do n't have the same prospects that some kid in Finland , Singapore , China , Indonesia , the United States ?
266 are-is You watch the news reports preceding the Arab Spring , but certainly since the Arab Spring started to turn into more an Arab Winter , and you weep for the children of this region , not just the ones who are being displaced in Syria , not just the ones who are currently suffering from humanitarian situations in Yemen , but just the ordinary Iranian youth or Saudi youth or Kuwaiti youth who are asking themselves , ` Why is it that we do n't have the same prospects that some kid in Finland , Singapore , China , Indonesia , the United States ?
267 are-is The so-called moderate in Iran is not going to be suddenly somebody who we feel reflects universal issues like human rights , but there are better or worse approaches that Iran can take relative to our interests and the interests of our allies , and we should see where we can encourage that better approach .
268 are-is ` In the same way that when Ronald Reagan and others negotiated arms agreement with the Soviet Union , you had to recognize , yes , this is an evil , terrible system , but within it are people with specific historic ideas and memories , and we have to be able to understand those things and potentially try to make some connection .
269 are-is In what he says is his effort to restore ` our Christian heritage , ' Mr. Lane 's American Renewal Project has already shown its influence in Iowa by helping to unseat three State Supreme Court justices who voted to allow same-sex marriage.But Mr. Lane 's ambitions are national - he focused on battleground states in 2014 and has built an email list of 100,000 pastors around the country.His goal now is to get 1,000 pastors to run for public office , and their potential support has drawn a virtual pilgrimage of conservative candidates eager to join the tours Mr. Lane organizes to Israel and to his ` Pastors and Pews ' events . '
270 are-is His campaign and the Democratic National Committee are among the groups that say they 'll make use of Twitter 's new in-message fundraising.The DNC is interested in the new tool `` because we think it will help give people a chance to show their support without taking them away from one of the platforms where they 're getting their information , '' said Matt Compton , the group 's digital director.Twitter is working with Square Inc. , a financial services company , to collect the money and the information that the Federal Election Commission requires from political donors .
271 are-is It is an inefficient route to victory in any case , out of alignment with today 's Electoral College map : Well-educated , diverse and secular residents of metropolitan areas are more important than traditionally Democratic but conservative voters.None of this is to say that Mrs. Clinton is a weak candidate .
272 are-is It is an inefficient route to victory in any case , out of alignment with today 's Electoral College map : Well-educated , diverse and secular residents of metropolitan areas are more important than traditionally Democratic but conservative voters.None of this is to say that Mrs. Clinton is a weak candidate .
273 are-is Cuomo is expected to headline a fund-raising event for Mr. Jeffries 's congressional campaign this fall , according to one Democrat who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the details of the event are still in flux.In an interview , Mr. Jeffries called the mayor 's clash with Mr. Cuomo a reckless mistake , given the broad power governors hold over city affairs .
274 are-is ` We are going to take the lessons of the heartland , ' he said here Tuesday , ` and straighten out Washington , D.C. ` But first , voters must figure out who Mr. Kasich is .
275 are-is At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
276 are-is Perhaps the most significant development in 2014 is the ability of Republican candidates to break with hard right conservative orthodoxy -- even candidates whose own roots are in the hard right .
277 are-is The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to publicly discuss national security matters.Some F.B.I. investigators privately disagree with the intense focus , which draws resources away from other investigations and sometimes has led to frustration inside the bureau and the Justice Department.After years of watching for large-scale plots , investigators are now trying to identify and prevent shootings and stabbings - violence on a scale that is common in major American cities but has never been a priority for the F.B.I. Preventing Islamic State-inspired violence is a priority , and current and former investigators say they feel tremendous pressure to succeed .
278 are-is ` That 's an example of how this is so different : There could be a plan to do something in the future , but the kind of folks these are , they 're unpredictable , unreliable , ' Mr. Comey said.In response to calls on Twitter by the Islamic State for Americans to stage attacks on the Fourth of July , F.B.I. officials in Washington told agents across the country in the weeks leading up to the holiday to arrest suspects under surveillance if they believed they had enough evidence to bring charges .
279 are-is When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
280 are-is State Democrats are concerned that her popularity will help Republican candidates , even if she is not on the ballot .
281 are-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
282 are-is ` Trump served notice that the donors ' platform is n't even acceptable inside the party , ' Mr. Frum said.Of course , there are reasons the reformocons have not lined up to support Mr. Trump .
283 are-is `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
284 are-is `` You are kind , but this is my first ball , and everything here is so grand !
285 are-is `` You are kind , but this is my first ball , and everything here is so grand !
286 are-is My guess is that the men inside -- even the Terrisman -- are members of a skaa thieving crew .
287 are-is A lot.A wide range of political science research suggests that if you want to know who will win the presidency , the state of the economy - and especially how economic conditions are changing - matters a great deal , perhaps even more than how charismatic the candidates are or how much money they raise.The election is 16 months away , but knowing what we know now , what should we expect the economic backdrop to be when Americans choose their next president ?
288 are-is It is not because they think Democrats are better stewards of the economy .
289 are-is ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
290 are-is And circumstances are anything but optimal for him : He faces a wide field of candidates , including several who are better financed and beloved by mainstream donors Jeb Bush , hold greater appeal to conservative voters who dominate the primary process Scott Walker , are agile public speakers with persuasive biographies Mr. Rubio , or are better liked by Republican voters all of the above.At his announcement , Mr. Christie sought political rebirth , as he has before , by relying on his powers as a narrator , and mythologizer , of his own story.Running for president is a new and bigger stage , though , and both Mr. Christie 's stagecraft and his oratory showed room for improvement .
291 are-is The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
292 are-is But broadly speaking we do n't know how secure corporate Canada is because companies are n't required to report security breaches .
293 are-is Hillary Rodham Clinton hinted at the party 's line of attack on Friday when she said , ` As love and joy flood our streets today , it is hard to imagine how anyone could deny the full protection of our laws to any of our fellow Americans - but there are those who would .
294 are-is His enthusiasm is growing ' Mr. Sugarman said , because ` people are responsive to what he is saying in a larger venue than has ever been the case before , and probably because they agree with him . '
295 are-is The crisis in Greece has faded , for now at least.But on Thursday , when Mr. Draghi presides at a regularly scheduled meeting of the central bank 's Governing Council , he will need to address the welter of new and in some cases unexpected threats from around the globe , which could create pressure for yet more stimulus spending.A slowdown in the economy of China and other emerging markets has prompted wild swings in stock prices , although markets were relatively calm on Wednesday.The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates in the United States as early as this month , possibly causing borrowing costs to rise in the eurozone before growth is strong enough.Some economists are even warning again about the eurozone 's lapsing into deflation , a broad decline in prices that is considered poisonous to growth and employment.An influx of refugees into Europe from Syria and other conflict zones , while outside the purview of monetary policy , adds to the uncertainty .
296 are-is ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
297 are-is ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
298 are-is ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
299 are-is Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
300 are-is Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
301 are-is ` This is Bush land , ' she said , but added , ` There are a lot of Republican establishment givers who are n't wanting to support the establishment .
302 are-is ` This is Bush land , ' she said , but added , ` There are a lot of Republican establishment givers who are n't wanting to support the establishment .
303 are-is There is no serious reason to think this polarity will shift anytime soon.But elections are very rarely won by major realignments ; most of the time , they 're won around the margins - and the margins of the black vote are more malleable than they might initially appear .
304 are-is There is no serious reason to think this polarity will shift anytime soon.But elections are very rarely won by major realignments ; most of the time , they 're won around the margins - and the margins of the black vote are more malleable than they might initially appear .
305 are-is ` Certainly the G.O.P. and Trump are giving her good ammo , and it is funny , but she 's like a magician - ` Look over here , not at what 's really going on , '' ' said Richard Tafel , a Republican strategist , pointing to the inquiries related to her use of private email as secretary of state.Attacking the Republicans is not just an applause-line strategy , though .
306 are-is Although there 's little evidence of a crime wave outside of a few major cities where homicides have increased , the political rationale seems obvious : The candidates are playing to the G.O.P. base , a normal part of the primary season.Another possibility , though , is that Republicans are also still searching for the best angle of attack against Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Democrats , who remain narrow betting market favorites in 2016 .
307 are-is Whether he will do so is perhaps the biggest question of the race , in part because his performance to date has provided so many reasons to doubt he can do it.Nowhere are Mr. Walker 's advantages more obvious than in Iowa , where he holds a persistent lead in early polls .
308 are-is In such a close contest , it might seem reasonable to argue that Mrs. Clinton 's unfavorable ratings are hugely important.But the case for that argument is n't so strong .
309 are-is The fundamentals are strongest when an incumbent president is on the ballot because the feelings about the president are so strong and firm on either side .
310 are-is ` Your family is calling you and telling you they have run out of food , but you can not send them money , ' Lieutenant Javed said , describing the plight of soldiers who are often the sole breadwinners for large families .
311 are-is At stake , they contend , is the economic security of workers who are uncompensated and unprotected by the traditional structures of employment , even as the owners of the technology are enriched by stock offerings .
312 are-is WASHINGTON - The $ 4 trillion budget that President Obama released Monday is more utopian vision than pragmatic blueprint for his final years in office , but buried in the document are kernels of proposals that could take root even with a hostile Republican Congress.In his penultimate budget , Mr. Obama proclaimed victory in the long climb from deep recession and said the time had come to loosen the strictures of austerity to invest in the nation 's future , laying out a plan likely to shape the 2016 presidential contests .
313 are-is In interviews , campaign pollsters argue that such polls , conducted largely by media organizations and universities , rely on feedback from many Republicans who are unlikely to vote because the polls do not verify the party registration or voting history of respondents - a fact that those conducting the surveys concede.New data provided to The Times by Civis Analytics , a firm aligned with Democrats and founded by the former chief analytics officer of the Obama re-election campaign , shows that there is merit to those concerns , but not enough to call Mr. Trump 's lead into question .
314 are-is In no small measure because of Wolfowitz 's erroneous predictions , the neocon brand came to be ridiculed during the early stages of the Iraq war , only to be vindicated somewhat by the triumph of the 2007 troop surge , which quelled Sunni violence and stabilized the Shia-dominated government.Throughout that period , not every hawk self-identified as a neocon , including Fontaine , who told me , '' Where I come down on this is I believe in the promotion of human rights and democracy , but there are times when you have to have pragmatic relationships with autocracies . ''
315 are-is ` Asked if he believed that , given the depth of Iran 's civil society , which in 2009 launched a ` green revolution ' challenging clerical rule , the forces there for greater integration with the world would be empowered by this deal , the president said : ` With respect to Iran , it is a great civilization , but it also has an authoritarian theocracy in charge that is anti-American , anti-Israeli , anti-Semitic , sponsors terrorism , and there are a whole host of real profound differences that we have with them , ' said the president .
316 are-is ` But we 're not counting on that , ' the president stressed , ` and that 's the thing I want to emphasize , because even over the last several weeks and today , as we announce the deal , what 's been striking to me is that , increasingly , the critics are shifting off the nuclear issue , and they 're moving into , ` Well , even if the nuclear issue is dealt with , they 're still going to be sponsoring terrorism , and they 're going to get this sanctions relief .
317 are-is And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
318 are-is And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
319 are-is And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
320 are-is And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
321 are-is You watch the news reports preceding the Arab Spring , but certainly since the Arab Spring started to turn into more an Arab Winter , and you weep for the children of this region , not just the ones who are being displaced in Syria , not just the ones who are currently suffering from humanitarian situations in Yemen , but just the ordinary Iranian youth or Saudi youth or Kuwaiti youth who are asking themselves , ` Why is it that we do n't have the same prospects that some kid in Finland , Singapore , China , Indonesia , the United States ?
322 are-is You watch the news reports preceding the Arab Spring , but certainly since the Arab Spring started to turn into more an Arab Winter , and you weep for the children of this region , not just the ones who are being displaced in Syria , not just the ones who are currently suffering from humanitarian situations in Yemen , but just the ordinary Iranian youth or Saudi youth or Kuwaiti youth who are asking themselves , ` Why is it that we do n't have the same prospects that some kid in Finland , Singapore , China , Indonesia , the United States ?
323 are-is The so-called moderate in Iran is not going to be suddenly somebody who we feel reflects universal issues like human rights , but there are better or worse approaches that Iran can take relative to our interests and the interests of our allies , and we should see where we can encourage that better approach .
324 are-is ` In the same way that when Ronald Reagan and others negotiated arms agreement with the Soviet Union , you had to recognize , yes , this is an evil , terrible system , but within it are people with specific historic ideas and memories , and we have to be able to understand those things and potentially try to make some connection .
325 are-is In what he says is his effort to restore ` our Christian heritage , ' Mr. Lane 's American Renewal Project has already shown its influence in Iowa by helping to unseat three State Supreme Court justices who voted to allow same-sex marriage.But Mr. Lane 's ambitions are national - he focused on battleground states in 2014 and has built an email list of 100,000 pastors around the country.His goal now is to get 1,000 pastors to run for public office , and their potential support has drawn a virtual pilgrimage of conservative candidates eager to join the tours Mr. Lane organizes to Israel and to his ` Pastors and Pews ' events . '
326 are-is His campaign and the Democratic National Committee are among the groups that say they 'll make use of Twitter 's new in-message fundraising.The DNC is interested in the new tool `` because we think it will help give people a chance to show their support without taking them away from one of the platforms where they 're getting their information , '' said Matt Compton , the group 's digital director.Twitter is working with Square Inc. , a financial services company , to collect the money and the information that the Federal Election Commission requires from political donors .
327 are-is It is an inefficient route to victory in any case , out of alignment with today 's Electoral College map : Well-educated , diverse and secular residents of metropolitan areas are more important than traditionally Democratic but conservative voters.None of this is to say that Mrs. Clinton is a weak candidate .
328 are-is It is an inefficient route to victory in any case , out of alignment with today 's Electoral College map : Well-educated , diverse and secular residents of metropolitan areas are more important than traditionally Democratic but conservative voters.None of this is to say that Mrs. Clinton is a weak candidate .
329 are-is Cuomo is expected to headline a fund-raising event for Mr. Jeffries 's congressional campaign this fall , according to one Democrat who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the details of the event are still in flux.In an interview , Mr. Jeffries called the mayor 's clash with Mr. Cuomo a reckless mistake , given the broad power governors hold over city affairs .
330 are-is ` We are going to take the lessons of the heartland , ' he said here Tuesday , ` and straighten out Washington , D.C. ` But first , voters must figure out who Mr. Kasich is .
331 are-is At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
332 are-is Perhaps the most significant development in 2014 is the ability of Republican candidates to break with hard right conservative orthodoxy -- even candidates whose own roots are in the hard right .
333 are-is The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to publicly discuss national security matters.Some F.B.I. investigators privately disagree with the intense focus , which draws resources away from other investigations and sometimes has led to frustration inside the bureau and the Justice Department.After years of watching for large-scale plots , investigators are now trying to identify and prevent shootings and stabbings - violence on a scale that is common in major American cities but has never been a priority for the F.B.I. Preventing Islamic State-inspired violence is a priority , and current and former investigators say they feel tremendous pressure to succeed .
334 are-is ` That 's an example of how this is so different : There could be a plan to do something in the future , but the kind of folks these are , they 're unpredictable , unreliable , ' Mr. Comey said.In response to calls on Twitter by the Islamic State for Americans to stage attacks on the Fourth of July , F.B.I. officials in Washington told agents across the country in the weeks leading up to the holiday to arrest suspects under surveillance if they believed they had enough evidence to bring charges .
335 are-is When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
336 are-is State Democrats are concerned that her popularity will help Republican candidates , even if she is not on the ballot .
337 are-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
338 are-is ` Trump served notice that the donors ' platform is n't even acceptable inside the party , ' Mr. Frum said.Of course , there are reasons the reformocons have not lined up to support Mr. Trump .
339 are-is `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
340 are-is `` You are kind , but this is my first ball , and everything here is so grand !
341 are-is `` You are kind , but this is my first ball , and everything here is so grand !
342 are-is My guess is that the men inside -- even the Terrisman -- are members of a skaa thieving crew .
343 are-is A lot.A wide range of political science research suggests that if you want to know who will win the presidency , the state of the economy - and especially how economic conditions are changing - matters a great deal , perhaps even more than how charismatic the candidates are or how much money they raise.The election is 16 months away , but knowing what we know now , what should we expect the economic backdrop to be when Americans choose their next president ?
344 are-is It is not because they think Democrats are better stewards of the economy .
345 are-is ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
346 are-is And circumstances are anything but optimal for him : He faces a wide field of candidates , including several who are better financed and beloved by mainstream donors Jeb Bush , hold greater appeal to conservative voters who dominate the primary process Scott Walker , are agile public speakers with persuasive biographies Mr. Rubio , or are better liked by Republican voters all of the above.At his announcement , Mr. Christie sought political rebirth , as he has before , by relying on his powers as a narrator , and mythologizer , of his own story.Running for president is a new and bigger stage , though , and both Mr. Christie 's stagecraft and his oratory showed room for improvement .
347 are-is The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
348 are-is But broadly speaking we do n't know how secure corporate Canada is because companies are n't required to report security breaches .
349 are-is Hillary Rodham Clinton hinted at the party 's line of attack on Friday when she said , ` As love and joy flood our streets today , it is hard to imagine how anyone could deny the full protection of our laws to any of our fellow Americans - but there are those who would .
350 are-is His enthusiasm is growing ' Mr. Sugarman said , because ` people are responsive to what he is saying in a larger venue than has ever been the case before , and probably because they agree with him . '
351 are-is The crisis in Greece has faded , for now at least.But on Thursday , when Mr. Draghi presides at a regularly scheduled meeting of the central bank 's Governing Council , he will need to address the welter of new and in some cases unexpected threats from around the globe , which could create pressure for yet more stimulus spending.A slowdown in the economy of China and other emerging markets has prompted wild swings in stock prices , although markets were relatively calm on Wednesday.The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates in the United States as early as this month , possibly causing borrowing costs to rise in the eurozone before growth is strong enough.Some economists are even warning again about the eurozone 's lapsing into deflation , a broad decline in prices that is considered poisonous to growth and employment.An influx of refugees into Europe from Syria and other conflict zones , while outside the purview of monetary policy , adds to the uncertainty .
352 are-is ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
353 are-is ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
354 are-is ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
355 are-is Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
356 are-is Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
357 are-is ` This is Bush land , ' she said , but added , ` There are a lot of Republican establishment givers who are n't wanting to support the establishment .
358 are-is ` This is Bush land , ' she said , but added , ` There are a lot of Republican establishment givers who are n't wanting to support the establishment .
359 are-is There is no serious reason to think this polarity will shift anytime soon.But elections are very rarely won by major realignments ; most of the time , they 're won around the margins - and the margins of the black vote are more malleable than they might initially appear .
360 are-is There is no serious reason to think this polarity will shift anytime soon.But elections are very rarely won by major realignments ; most of the time , they 're won around the margins - and the margins of the black vote are more malleable than they might initially appear .
361 are-is ` Certainly the G.O.P. and Trump are giving her good ammo , and it is funny , but she 's like a magician - ` Look over here , not at what 's really going on , '' ' said Richard Tafel , a Republican strategist , pointing to the inquiries related to her use of private email as secretary of state.Attacking the Republicans is not just an applause-line strategy , though .
362 are-is Although there 's little evidence of a crime wave outside of a few major cities where homicides have increased , the political rationale seems obvious : The candidates are playing to the G.O.P. base , a normal part of the primary season.Another possibility , though , is that Republicans are also still searching for the best angle of attack against Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Democrats , who remain narrow betting market favorites in 2016 .
363 are-is Whether he will do so is perhaps the biggest question of the race , in part because his performance to date has provided so many reasons to doubt he can do it.Nowhere are Mr. Walker 's advantages more obvious than in Iowa , where he holds a persistent lead in early polls .
364 are-is In such a close contest , it might seem reasonable to argue that Mrs. Clinton 's unfavorable ratings are hugely important.But the case for that argument is n't so strong .
365 are-is The fundamentals are strongest when an incumbent president is on the ballot because the feelings about the president are so strong and firm on either side .
366 are-is ` Your family is calling you and telling you they have run out of food , but you can not send them money , ' Lieutenant Javed said , describing the plight of soldiers who are often the sole breadwinners for large families .
367 are-is At stake , they contend , is the economic security of workers who are uncompensated and unprotected by the traditional structures of employment , even as the owners of the technology are enriched by stock offerings .
368 are-is WASHINGTON - The $ 4 trillion budget that President Obama released Monday is more utopian vision than pragmatic blueprint for his final years in office , but buried in the document are kernels of proposals that could take root even with a hostile Republican Congress.In his penultimate budget , Mr. Obama proclaimed victory in the long climb from deep recession and said the time had come to loosen the strictures of austerity to invest in the nation 's future , laying out a plan likely to shape the 2016 presidential contests .
369 are-is In interviews , campaign pollsters argue that such polls , conducted largely by media organizations and universities , rely on feedback from many Republicans who are unlikely to vote because the polls do not verify the party registration or voting history of respondents - a fact that those conducting the surveys concede.New data provided to The Times by Civis Analytics , a firm aligned with Democrats and founded by the former chief analytics officer of the Obama re-election campaign , shows that there is merit to those concerns , but not enough to call Mr. Trump 's lead into question .
370 are-is In no small measure because of Wolfowitz 's erroneous predictions , the neocon brand came to be ridiculed during the early stages of the Iraq war , only to be vindicated somewhat by the triumph of the 2007 troop surge , which quelled Sunni violence and stabilized the Shia-dominated government.Throughout that period , not every hawk self-identified as a neocon , including Fontaine , who told me , '' Where I come down on this is I believe in the promotion of human rights and democracy , but there are times when you have to have pragmatic relationships with autocracies . ''
371 are-is ` Asked if he believed that , given the depth of Iran 's civil society , which in 2009 launched a ` green revolution ' challenging clerical rule , the forces there for greater integration with the world would be empowered by this deal , the president said : ` With respect to Iran , it is a great civilization , but it also has an authoritarian theocracy in charge that is anti-American , anti-Israeli , anti-Semitic , sponsors terrorism , and there are a whole host of real profound differences that we have with them , ' said the president .
372 are-is ` But we 're not counting on that , ' the president stressed , ` and that 's the thing I want to emphasize , because even over the last several weeks and today , as we announce the deal , what 's been striking to me is that , increasingly , the critics are shifting off the nuclear issue , and they 're moving into , ` Well , even if the nuclear issue is dealt with , they 're still going to be sponsoring terrorism , and they 're going to get this sanctions relief .
373 are-is And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
374 are-is And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
375 are-is And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
376 are-is And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
377 are-is You watch the news reports preceding the Arab Spring , but certainly since the Arab Spring started to turn into more an Arab Winter , and you weep for the children of this region , not just the ones who are being displaced in Syria , not just the ones who are currently suffering from humanitarian situations in Yemen , but just the ordinary Iranian youth or Saudi youth or Kuwaiti youth who are asking themselves , ` Why is it that we do n't have the same prospects that some kid in Finland , Singapore , China , Indonesia , the United States ?
378 are-is You watch the news reports preceding the Arab Spring , but certainly since the Arab Spring started to turn into more an Arab Winter , and you weep for the children of this region , not just the ones who are being displaced in Syria , not just the ones who are currently suffering from humanitarian situations in Yemen , but just the ordinary Iranian youth or Saudi youth or Kuwaiti youth who are asking themselves , ` Why is it that we do n't have the same prospects that some kid in Finland , Singapore , China , Indonesia , the United States ?
379 are-is The so-called moderate in Iran is not going to be suddenly somebody who we feel reflects universal issues like human rights , but there are better or worse approaches that Iran can take relative to our interests and the interests of our allies , and we should see where we can encourage that better approach .
380 are-is ` In the same way that when Ronald Reagan and others negotiated arms agreement with the Soviet Union , you had to recognize , yes , this is an evil , terrible system , but within it are people with specific historic ideas and memories , and we have to be able to understand those things and potentially try to make some connection .
381 are-is In what he says is his effort to restore ` our Christian heritage , ' Mr. Lane 's American Renewal Project has already shown its influence in Iowa by helping to unseat three State Supreme Court justices who voted to allow same-sex marriage.But Mr. Lane 's ambitions are national - he focused on battleground states in 2014 and has built an email list of 100,000 pastors around the country.His goal now is to get 1,000 pastors to run for public office , and their potential support has drawn a virtual pilgrimage of conservative candidates eager to join the tours Mr. Lane organizes to Israel and to his ` Pastors and Pews ' events . '
382 are-is His campaign and the Democratic National Committee are among the groups that say they 'll make use of Twitter 's new in-message fundraising.The DNC is interested in the new tool `` because we think it will help give people a chance to show their support without taking them away from one of the platforms where they 're getting their information , '' said Matt Compton , the group 's digital director.Twitter is working with Square Inc. , a financial services company , to collect the money and the information that the Federal Election Commission requires from political donors .
383 are-is It is an inefficient route to victory in any case , out of alignment with today 's Electoral College map : Well-educated , diverse and secular residents of metropolitan areas are more important than traditionally Democratic but conservative voters.None of this is to say that Mrs. Clinton is a weak candidate .
384 are-is It is an inefficient route to victory in any case , out of alignment with today 's Electoral College map : Well-educated , diverse and secular residents of metropolitan areas are more important than traditionally Democratic but conservative voters.None of this is to say that Mrs. Clinton is a weak candidate .
385 are-is Cuomo is expected to headline a fund-raising event for Mr. Jeffries 's congressional campaign this fall , according to one Democrat who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the details of the event are still in flux.In an interview , Mr. Jeffries called the mayor 's clash with Mr. Cuomo a reckless mistake , given the broad power governors hold over city affairs .
386 are-is ` We are going to take the lessons of the heartland , ' he said here Tuesday , ` and straighten out Washington , D.C. ` But first , voters must figure out who Mr. Kasich is .
387 are-is At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
388 are-is Perhaps the most significant development in 2014 is the ability of Republican candidates to break with hard right conservative orthodoxy -- even candidates whose own roots are in the hard right .
389 are-is The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to publicly discuss national security matters.Some F.B.I. investigators privately disagree with the intense focus , which draws resources away from other investigations and sometimes has led to frustration inside the bureau and the Justice Department.After years of watching for large-scale plots , investigators are now trying to identify and prevent shootings and stabbings - violence on a scale that is common in major American cities but has never been a priority for the F.B.I. Preventing Islamic State-inspired violence is a priority , and current and former investigators say they feel tremendous pressure to succeed .
390 are-is ` That 's an example of how this is so different : There could be a plan to do something in the future , but the kind of folks these are , they 're unpredictable , unreliable , ' Mr. Comey said.In response to calls on Twitter by the Islamic State for Americans to stage attacks on the Fourth of July , F.B.I. officials in Washington told agents across the country in the weeks leading up to the holiday to arrest suspects under surveillance if they believed they had enough evidence to bring charges .
391 are-is When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
392 are-is State Democrats are concerned that her popularity will help Republican candidates , even if she is not on the ballot .
393 are-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
394 are-is ` Trump served notice that the donors ' platform is n't even acceptable inside the party , ' Mr. Frum said.Of course , there are reasons the reformocons have not lined up to support Mr. Trump .
395 are-is `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
396 are-is `` You are kind , but this is my first ball , and everything here is so grand !
397 are-is `` You are kind , but this is my first ball , and everything here is so grand !
398 are-is My guess is that the men inside -- even the Terrisman -- are members of a skaa thieving crew .
399 are-is A lot.A wide range of political science research suggests that if you want to know who will win the presidency , the state of the economy - and especially how economic conditions are changing - matters a great deal , perhaps even more than how charismatic the candidates are or how much money they raise.The election is 16 months away , but knowing what we know now , what should we expect the economic backdrop to be when Americans choose their next president ?
400 are-is It is not because they think Democrats are better stewards of the economy .
401 are-is ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
402 are-is And circumstances are anything but optimal for him : He faces a wide field of candidates , including several who are better financed and beloved by mainstream donors Jeb Bush , hold greater appeal to conservative voters who dominate the primary process Scott Walker , are agile public speakers with persuasive biographies Mr. Rubio , or are better liked by Republican voters all of the above.At his announcement , Mr. Christie sought political rebirth , as he has before , by relying on his powers as a narrator , and mythologizer , of his own story.Running for president is a new and bigger stage , though , and both Mr. Christie 's stagecraft and his oratory showed room for improvement .
403 are-is The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
404 are-is But broadly speaking we do n't know how secure corporate Canada is because companies are n't required to report security breaches .
405 are-is Hillary Rodham Clinton hinted at the party 's line of attack on Friday when she said , ` As love and joy flood our streets today , it is hard to imagine how anyone could deny the full protection of our laws to any of our fellow Americans - but there are those who would .
406 are-is His enthusiasm is growing ' Mr. Sugarman said , because ` people are responsive to what he is saying in a larger venue than has ever been the case before , and probably because they agree with him . '
407 are-is The crisis in Greece has faded , for now at least.But on Thursday , when Mr. Draghi presides at a regularly scheduled meeting of the central bank 's Governing Council , he will need to address the welter of new and in some cases unexpected threats from around the globe , which could create pressure for yet more stimulus spending.A slowdown in the economy of China and other emerging markets has prompted wild swings in stock prices , although markets were relatively calm on Wednesday.The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates in the United States as early as this month , possibly causing borrowing costs to rise in the eurozone before growth is strong enough.Some economists are even warning again about the eurozone 's lapsing into deflation , a broad decline in prices that is considered poisonous to growth and employment.An influx of refugees into Europe from Syria and other conflict zones , while outside the purview of monetary policy , adds to the uncertainty .
408 are-is ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
409 are-is ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
410 are-is ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
411 are-is Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
412 are-is Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
413 are-known It began issuing orders to phone companies to turn over their customers ' calling records.Its orders were based on a secret interpretation of a provision of the U.S.A. Patriot Act , known as Section 215 , which permits the F.B.I. to obtain business records deemed ` relevant ' to a national security investigation.The theory , accepted by the intelligence court but rejected in a recent appeals court ruling , is that everyone 's records are relevant to investigations hunting for terrorists because analyzing indirect links between callers can , in theory , reveal hidden relationships and sleeper cells.After praising the program as crucial to preventing terrorist attacks , intelligence agency officials now say that it has never thwarted one .
414 are-known They are rowdy , even violent -- far different from the quiet , discerning Terris philosophers and holy men that I have known .
415 are-known `` We are n't like other crews you 've known -- we work as we please , not because we are told to .
416 are-meant He always said we are n't invincible ... but that meant me .
417 are-nudged The rumors about me are a start , but ... He nudged Ham , getting the man 's attention .
418 are-paying I 'll believe that you are n't after the money -- I 'll even believe that you intend to deliver Yeden this army he 's apparently paying you for .
419 are-paying `` Are you even paying attention to me ? ''
420 are-said ` This is Bush land , ' she said , but added , ` There are a lot of Republican establishment givers who are n't wanting to support the establishment .
421 are-said ` This is Bush land , ' she said , but added , ` There are a lot of Republican establishment givers who are n't wanting to support the establishment .
422 are-said ` Certainly the G.O.P. and Trump are giving her good ammo , and it is funny , but she 's like a magician - ` Look over here , not at what 's really going on , '' ' said Richard Tafel , a Republican strategist , pointing to the inquiries related to her use of private email as secretary of state.Attacking the Republicans is not just an applause-line strategy , though .
423 are-said WASHINGTON - The $ 4 trillion budget that President Obama released Monday is more utopian vision than pragmatic blueprint for his final years in office , but buried in the document are kernels of proposals that could take root even with a hostile Republican Congress.In his penultimate budget , Mr. Obama proclaimed victory in the long climb from deep recession and said the time had come to loosen the strictures of austerity to invest in the nation 's future , laying out a plan likely to shape the 2016 presidential contests .
424 are-said He said he would not accept spending bills that maintained tough budget caps he agreed to in 2011 , nor would he loosen budget controls on military spending without relaxing them for domestic programs.But hidden in some of his most ambitious proposals to diminish the wealth gap and remake the corporate tax code are areas of potential compromise that nod to Republican ideas : an expansion of the earned income credit for the working poor , a revitalized Pentagon budget , and a surge in spending on roads , bridges , airports and other infrastructure , financed by a new tax rate on foreign corporate profits.Absent from the plan is any pretense of remaking the main drivers of the long-term debt - Social Security and Medicare - a quest that has long eluded both parties .
425 are-said ` As inappropriate as some of his comments are , I think it 's stuff that a lot of people are thinking but afraid to say , ' she said .
426 are-said ` As inappropriate as some of his comments are , I think it 's stuff that a lot of people are thinking but afraid to say , ' she said .
427 are-said ` He does n't need anybody 's money , ' said Maureen Colcord , 60 , a clinical dietitian from Derry.Even as dozens of national and state polls have charted Mr. Trump 's steady ascent , Republican campaigns have taken solace in their conviction that those surveys are flawed and misleading .
428 are-said ` Asked if he believed that , given the depth of Iran 's civil society , which in 2009 launched a ` green revolution ' challenging clerical rule , the forces there for greater integration with the world would be empowered by this deal , the president said : ` With respect to Iran , it is a great civilization , but it also has an authoritarian theocracy in charge that is anti-American , anti-Israeli , anti-Semitic , sponsors terrorism , and there are a whole host of real profound differences that we have with them , ' said the president .
429 are-said His campaign and the Democratic National Committee are among the groups that say they 'll make use of Twitter 's new in-message fundraising.The DNC is interested in the new tool `` because we think it will help give people a chance to show their support without taking them away from one of the platforms where they 're getting their information , '' said Matt Compton , the group 's digital director.Twitter is working with Square Inc. , a financial services company , to collect the money and the information that the Federal Election Commission requires from political donors .
430 are-said `` What is important for the IOC is that we want to send the athletes only to cities where they are welcome , '' Bach said , adding that the IOC will carry out its own confidential polling in all the bid cities.Germany , which last held the Summer Olympics in Munich in 1972 , is the leading contender to host the European soccer championship in 2024 , but Bach - a German - said there was no reason the country could n't hold both events .
431 are-said He noted that Mr. de Blasio 's popularity has fallen among black New Yorkers , and said he believed it would be healthy for the city if Mr. de Blasio had a re-election fight.Though Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Stringer are most often discussed as potential opponents for the mayor in a Democratic primary , there is a longer list of possible challengers , including Ruben Diaz Jr. , the Bronx borough president ; Eric L. Adams , the Brooklyn borough president ; Letitia James , the public advocate ; and Melissa Mark-Viverito , the City Council speaker .
432 are-said `` Trump will be Trump , Ben will be Ben , and the contrast could n't be clearer , '' Bennett said.In contrast to other campaigns , no one has been playing Trump during Carson 's debate preparation sessions , which are somewhat unusual .
433 are-said ` Headquarters was saying , ` You ca n't take the chance that these guys will quickly do something crazy , '' ' one senior law enforcement official said.The warnings about unpredictable , small-scale attacks , however , are not completely new.Shortly after Sept. 11 , the F.B.I. warned of attacks against churches , supermarkets and shopping malls .
434 are-said `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
435 are-said ` Reform conservatism is based on a recognition that the American economy has not served middle-income people well , not just since the crisis of 2008 but at least since the year 2000 , ' said David Frum , the prominent Canadian-American conservative journalist and former speechwriter for George W. Bush who serves as a senior editor at The Atlantic.Though the reform conservatives dissent from conservative tax orthodoxy , they are not necessarily moderates .
436 are-said Already , over a dozen states are preparing to file lawsuits against the plan in disputes that are expected to end up before the Supreme Court , where the justices will have final say over whether the regulations live or die.However , experts said , a new Republican president could simply stop implementing the regulations .
437 are-said Already , over a dozen states are preparing to file lawsuits against the plan in disputes that are expected to end up before the Supreme Court , where the justices will have final say over whether the regulations live or die.However , experts said , a new Republican president could simply stop implementing the regulations .
438 are-said `` Some tasks are even more dangerous than others , '' Kelsier said quietly .
439 are-said `` I did n't choose you men because of your competence , '' Kelsier said , `` though you are certainly skilled .
440 are-said He said people need to ask candidates like Trump about foreign policy because `` these are extraordinarily dangerous times .
441 are-said Hillary Rodham Clinton hinted at the party 's line of attack on Friday when she said , ` As love and joy flood our streets today , it is hard to imagine how anyone could deny the full protection of our laws to any of our fellow Americans - but there are those who would .
442 are-said His enthusiasm is growing ' Mr. Sugarman said , because ` people are responsive to what he is saying in a larger venue than has ever been the case before , and probably because they agree with him . '
443 are-said ` Others are betting the E.C.B. will step up quantitative easing , but it 's too early , ' said Carsten Brzeski , chief economist for Germany and Austria at ING Bank .
444 are-said ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
445 are-said But too many texts can cause a much more visceral reaction - perhaps turning off a voter completely and irrevocably.Excess ` can be unforgivable on text , ' said Laura Olin , who helped manage the Obama campaign 's text messaging in 2012 , ` because you are getting into people 's faces . '
446 are-took He took particular issue with Mr. Trump 's support for higher tariffs and his apparent disregard for long-term deficits.Even those reformocons who are immigration hawks do not necessarily find much to love in Mr. Trump 's agenda .
447 are-took The legends are real , though it took some time for me to find them . ''
448 are-turned They are not only handsome , but they are well turned out .
449 are-withdrawing `` People I know who are supporting her are not necessarily withdrawing , but are unenthusiastic .
450 argue-is In such a close contest , it might seem reasonable to argue that Mrs. Clinton 's unfavorable ratings are hugely important.But the case for that argument is n't so strong .
451 argue-is But amassing the delegates and voters to win the nomination is a lot harder than withstanding attacks on controversial comments five or six months before an election.Grass-roots conservatives and liberals may resent it , but many analysts - including me - argue that the outcome of presidential nominations is shaped or even decided by party elites .
452 argue-is In interviews , campaign pollsters argue that such polls , conducted largely by media organizations and universities , rely on feedback from many Republicans who are unlikely to vote because the polls do not verify the party registration or voting history of respondents - a fact that those conducting the surveys concede.New data provided to The Times by Civis Analytics , a firm aligned with Democrats and founded by the former chief analytics officer of the Obama re-election campaign , shows that there is merit to those concerns , but not enough to call Mr. Trump 's lead into question .
453 argued-hamstring For years , Republicans have argued that the United States should not take unilateral action on climate change because it would hamstring the economy while China , the world 's largest carbon polluter , failed to act .
454 argued-hurt We argued , true -- but we never really wanted to hurt one another . ''
455 argues-struggled But that effort has struggled , in part because attacking him brings risks , and every group argues that someone else ought to do the work of taking him down .
456 arrest-do ` That 's an example of how this is so different : There could be a plan to do something in the future , but the kind of folks these are , they 're unpredictable , unreliable , ' Mr. Comey said.In response to calls on Twitter by the Islamic State for Americans to stage attacks on the Fourth of July , F.B.I. officials in Washington told agents across the country in the weeks leading up to the holiday to arrest suspects under surveillance if they believed they had enough evidence to bring charges .
457 arrested-charged American intelligence officials said a Qaeda financier paid for his trip the United States.He was quickly arrested but charged with the far less serious crime of credit card fraud .
458 arrested-coordinating He returned in the early 1970s to complete his English degree.Dozens of his friends went to jail during his time with Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee , but he was arrested only once .
459 arrive-know She had to catch up to Kelsier ; otherwise she 'd arrive in Luthadel , but not know where to go from there .
460 arrive-made Mennis was n't the first to arrive at the edge of the short hilltop plateau , but the group made way for him when he did .
461 arrive-planned Take your time in the bath -- Kell 's planned a meeting for this afternoon , but we ca n't start until Breeze and Ham arrive . ''
462 arrived-did Her meal arrived , but Vin did n't have much of an appetite anymore .
463 arrived-shook As he arrived , however , the cart shook .
464 ascribe-sparked The opening has also sparked speculation that Vice President Joe Biden could be a late entry into the Democratic contest.But it 's the surveys showing voters have questions about Clinton 's integrity that are the most troubling for her campaign.In a recent Quinnipiac University poll , 61 percent of voters said they did not consider Clinton honest and trustworthy compared to 34 percent who did ascribe those qualities to her .
465 ask-loaded The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
466 ask-speak `` I ask you about him because he does n't speak much of himself , '' Vin said .
467 ask-think This is a ridiculous thing to say to a Mistborn , I think , but I ask anyway . ''
468 asked-see a Cleveland newspaper columnist asked this month.But here in Columbus , supporters see Mr. Kasich 's bluntness as an asset .
469 asked-was Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows , even those on which he did not appear.Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate - Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio - were both asked about Mr. Trump.Mr .
470 asked-was ONAWA , Iowa - Scott Walker 's suggestion that building a wall between Canada and the U.S. might be a `` legitimate '' idea prompted swift derision from fellow Republicans on Monday and an attempt by his campaign to clarify what he meant.It was the latest misstep for a 2016 presidential candidate who got off to a strong start but has fallen back into the pack after a series of fumbles and a lackluster performance in the first GOP debate.The Wisconsin governor was asked on NBC 's `` Meet the Press '' on Sunday whether he thought a wall should be built along the more than 5,000 miles of border with Canada .
471 asked-was ` At a private fund-raiser the night before in Richmond , Va. , Mr. Bush was even more direct when asked by a contributor what he would do about Mr. Trump .
472 asked-was Mrs. Fiorina made the most of every question she was asked , and she seized the floor even when it was n't her turn .
473 asking-texting Technology firms like Blue State Digital , on the left , and IMGE , on the right , are trying to perfect ways to allow voters to authorize donations by texting.But asking for money too often can get on voters ' nerves .
474 asks-is `` Ham often asks if there even is such a thing as ` evil .
475 assassinate-does I was originally supposed to go assassinate noblemen , but Kell does n't want me to do that anymore . ''
476 assassinated-decided I 'm not going to have him assassinated because he decided it was too dangerous .
477 assemble-have Republicans might not have 60 votes for passage , but they could possibly assemble the votes to overcome a Democratic filibuster .
478 assesses-put ` We have to run an extremely well-run institution that properly assesses risk , that is willing to work with other organizations but not take chances that put the bank at risk , ' Mr. Mestrich said .
479 assist-wounded Blood transfusions are a rarity , and the blood type that soldiers have listed on their identification cards to assist medics is often incorrect.Ahmad , a battlefield medic in Musa Qala who would only give his first name , said that he and his colleagues treated arm and leg wounds on the front lines , but that ` when the soldiers got wounded on chest , head and abdomen , we can not treat them or stop bleeding .
480 associate-say I have n't had the opportunity to associate much with your brother , but I must say that the man is obviously a genius ! ''
481 assume-try Hopefully , they 'll assume it was just to spite my father , but they could still try to use you .
482 assumed-study It could be quite disastrous to a young lady 's social life if all of the young men assumed her unavailable simply because an annoying lord decided to study at her table . ''
483 assumed-tell `` I will tell you what I can , though this is not the book that I first assumed it to be .
484 assumed-tended She 'd always assumed that the title `` Mistborn '' had come about because Allomancers tended to do their work at night .
485 assumed-was She 'd assumed that he was using horses , but it appeared that there was a better way .
486 assumed-was Vin had assumed that they were too packed to move , but apparently she was wrong .
487 assuming-make `` Assuming , '' Yeden said , `` you can even make good on your first and primary promise .
488 assuming-survived It would be decades before Elend assumed the house title , assuming he even survived that long .
489 ate-faded As she ate , however , her anger faded .
490 ate-worked We ate more regularly than a lot of the street skaa , but we were worked as hard as any millworker .
491 attached-doubt You might have grown attached to her , but I doubt her own feelings are genuine . ''
492 attack-listen `` I 'll listen , but I 'm not going to attack men who think I 'm their ally . ''
493 attacked-ducked A second hazekiller attacked , but Kelsier ducked , then reached down with his free hand , ripping his coin pouch off of his belt .
494 attacked-jumped The Inquisitor attacked from behind , but Kelsier jumped away .
495 attacked-talking He said he was talking specifically about Planned Parenthood but he has been attacked repeatedly by Hillary Clinton for the line .
496 attacking-boost ` Mr. Perry won the most attention this year for fiercely attacking Donald J. Trump , but the salvos did little to boost his own poll standing .
497 attacks-exposed Luthadel might be exposed , but no one ever attacks Luthadel .
498 attempt-rooting I am rooting for Donald Trump.Not because I want to see him attempt to build an impenetrable wall along the border with Mexico nor because I 've been following his grotesque campaign with the kind of guilty gusto that got me hooked on the reality show ` Here Comes Honey Boo Boo .
499 attend-attending You wo n't be expected to attend quite so frequently , but we should probably get you up to attending two or three a week . ''
500 attend-ted WASHINGTON - To some Republican presidential candidates , it 's better to be with the popular pope than against him.Marco Rubio , Rand Paul and Ted Cruz have deep policy differences with Pope Francis , but the senators will break off campaign travel to attend his address to Congress later this month , a centerpiece of his eagerly anticipated visit to the United States.Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush , a devout Catholic , will attend Mass with Francis in Washington .
501 attend-ted WASHINGTON - To some Republican presidential candidates , it 's better to be with the popular pope than against him.Marco Rubio , Rand Paul and Ted Cruz have deep policy differences with Pope Francis , but the senators will break off campaign travel to attend his address to Congress later this month , a centerpiece of his eagerly anticipated visit to the United States.Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush , a devout Catholic , will attend Mass with Francis in Washington .
502 attend-thieving Supposedly , all the men in the city -- skaa or noble -- were required to attend execution ceremonies , but thieving crews knew how to remain hidden .
503 attended-find Our table was attended by Lord Elend Venture for most of the evening , though Mistress Vin did find a way to make his attentions less threatening to the court . ''
504 attended-mingled `` But the remark , at least on its surface , was about the courage it takes for students to go back to community college after being out for years.Biden later mingled with the types of donors he 'd need to challenge Clinton for the nomination.At the fundraiser , Biden spoke about the need to elect more Democrats to the Senate but did not address his 2016 plans , according to two donors who attended the event .
505 attended-were She attended numerous balls -- but they were only the beginning .
506 attending-drove ` What is unfolding nationally is reminiscent of the 1994 initiative championed by Pete Wilson , a Republican who was then governor of California , that sought to bar undocumented immigrants from attending public schools and seeking medical care.The measure , which passed but was never carried out , drove Latino immigrants to become naturalized in droves and register to vote .
507 attracted-follow His son Horace Mann Bond expected his own son Julian to follow in his footsteps as an educator , but the young man was attracted instead to journalism and political activism.At age 12 , Julian was sent to the private Quaker-run George School near Philadelphia .
508 attracts-drawn Politics attracts many despicable characters , but some of the people drawn to government service are there because they are animated by a cause.Still , let 's assume in Trumpian fashion that his rivals will , if elected , merely pursue the agenda of their high-dollar contributors .
509 authorized-pursue `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
510 avenge-pushed All those who pushed , or went along with , the Iraq invasion , had different but interlocking motives for the crime : W. wanted to avenge and one-up his father , whom he accused of cutting and running in Iraq ; Hillary wanted to show that she could man-up ; Cheney wanted to make America a hyperpower .
511 avoid-navigate Republican leaders in the House and Senate would like to avoid a shutdown , but they will have to navigate conservative demands for cutting funding for Planned Parenthood - a position the White House opposes.In addition , Pope Francis will be in Washington at the end of the month for a much-anticipated address , and he is likely to press Congress on climate change , the European migrant crisis and poverty programs.Carl HulseStay tuned throughout the day : Follow us on Twitter @NYTpolitics and on Facebook for First Draft updates.In addition to the return of Congress this week , Democrats will happily embrace the start of a new season in their effort to hold the White House in 2016 .
512 avoided-protected He carried a dueling cane and was protected by two beleaguered bodyguards , but he mostly avoided harm by virtue of neither side being certain of wanting to strike down a man of obvious noble blood .
513 avoided-s He 's probably not even here -- he said he avoided balls when possible .
514 awakened-told She had n't tapped for trapdoors or false walls -- the noise might have awakened someone -- but experience told her that it would n't be a proper lair if it did n't have at least a secret basement and some bolt-holes .
515 bach-host `` What is important for the IOC is that we want to send the athletes only to cities where they are welcome , '' Bach said , adding that the IOC will carry out its own confidential polling in all the bid cities.Germany , which last held the Summer Olympics in Munich in 1972 , is the leading contender to host the European soccer championship in 2024 , but Bach - a German - said there was no reason the country could n't hold both events .
516 backed-lost In 2012 , Mitt Romney won among men , 52-45 , but lost the election because women , 53 percent of voters that year , backed Obama 55-44 .
517 backhanded-stood He backhanded her even as she stood .
518 balance-do `` It 's easier to balance in the air if you have a tripod of anchors , but you can do fine with a single anchor .
519 balked-favors Yet many prominent donors and GOP establishment figures have balked , largely because of the younger Paul 's foreign policy views.Like his father , former Rep. Ron Paul , Rand Paul favors a dramatically smaller footprint in the world .
520 bans-defined That provision bans measures that result ` in a denial or abridgment ' of voting rights based on race - but what that means in practice is not well defined.While there is wide interest in the trial in legal circles , perhaps no one followed it more closely than Mary E. Perry , an 85-year-old African-American woman from Wendell , N.C. , and a local N.A.A.C.P. leader who attended from start to finish .
521 bar-hefted A man at the doorway tried to bar his entrance , but Dox pointed toward the roof , then hefted his coinpouch suggestively .
522 barred-compared The forces are struggling to maintain a stalemate : an at-least token government presence in the hundreds of district capitals handed over by departing NATO combat troops.Several Afghan officers described desertion as such a problem that soldiers and police officers in some critical areas had simply been barred from returning home on leave , keeping them on the front lines for months straight.And after a casualty rate last year that the previous American commander called unsustainable , the numbers this year are even worse : up more than 50 percent compared with the first six months of 2014 .
523 bashed-talks `` Everyone talks about it , but no one is laying it out there , '' he said.Democrats bashed the plan as `` more trickle-down Bush economics . ''
524 bathe-cleaned Servants cleaned up after her , primped her , fed her , and even helped bathe her .
525 be-brought The reason we were able to unify the world community around the most effective sanctions regime we 've ever set up , a sanction regime that crippled the Iranian economy and ultimately brought them to the table , was because the world agreed with us , that it would be a great danger to the region , to our allies , to the world , if Iran possessed a nuclear weapon .
526 be-brought A renegade he might be -- a danger to the entire community -- but he brought news from the outside world .
527 be-came Mr. Lee apparently came away impressed , but the initial expectation may be the better indicator of his reputational challenge.Mr .
528 be-came KABUL , Afghanistan - After suffering setbacks and heavy casualties at the hands of the Taliban in 2014 , Afghan security forces came into this year with what Afghan and Western officials acknowledge were relatively modest goals : hang on till the end of the fighting season without major collapses.But with months of heavy fighting still ahead , 2015 is already shaping up to be worse for the Afghan Army and the national police , even as President Obama is set to begin deliberating this year on whether to follow through with a complete withdrawal of the United States military assistance mission here in 2016 .
529 be-came But I think that if I were succeeded by a Republican president - and I 'll be doing everything that I can to prevent that from happening - but if I were , that Republican president would be in a much stronger position than I was when I came into office , in terms of constraining Iran 's nuclear program .
530 be-came This would be a transformative step toward modernizing the nation 's archaic , error-filled approach to registering voters.No state currently has such inclusive registration , although Oregon came closest in March when it passed a law automatically registering eligible citizens with a driver 's license - instantly adding 300,000 voters to the rolls .
531 be-contrasts DES MOINES , Iowa - President Barack Obama wo n't be on the ballot in 2016 , but on Monday he showed he 's looking for ways to put his imprint on the race to succeed him.On a visit to Iowa , the state that will have the first say in winnowing the presidential field , Obama drew sharp contrasts between Democratic policies and those of Republicans seeking to reclaim the White House .
532 be-did The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
533 be-did The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
534 be-did Trump may be very different from past candidates , but his story could easily end the way theirs did .
535 be-did ` You did n't read things like this from political scientists or data journalists two months ago , but Mr. Trump has since shown himself to be a different kind of challenger than ones from the recent past .
536 be-did But he appears to be connecting with Republican voters at a rate that even his closest aides did n't predict.Heading into Wednesday night 's second debate of the GOP contest , Carson finds himself alongside Trump atop the field.A New York Times/CBS News poll released Tuesday shows Carson favored by 23 percent of likely Republican primary voters compared to Trump 's 27 percent .
537 be-did Because members must remain seated when the doors are locked , they worked the phones to try to change votes.Some members had quietly indicated that they would be the 63rd vote but did not want to change their votes before that .
538 be-did The opening has also sparked speculation that Vice President Joe Biden could be a late entry into the Democratic contest.But it 's the surveys showing voters have questions about Clinton 's integrity that are the most troubling for her campaign.In a recent Quinnipiac University poll , 61 percent of voters said they did not consider Clinton honest and trustworthy compared to 34 percent who did ascribe those qualities to her .
539 be-did The opening has also sparked speculation that Vice President Joe Biden could be a late entry into the Democratic contest.But it 's the surveys showing voters have questions about Clinton 's integrity that are the most troubling for her campaign.In a recent Quinnipiac University poll , 61 percent of voters said they did not consider Clinton honest and trustworthy compared to 34 percent who did ascribe those qualities to her .
540 be-did The stance was obviously intended to be respectful , but his looming posture did n't help her mood any .
541 be-did If Shan did something against him personally , it might or might not be a major blow against House Venture -- but it would certainly be a major blow against Vin .
542 be-did Perhaps if his wife were still alive , she could have taught Vin things about pretending to be a noblewoman that even Sazed did n't know .
543 be-did Noblemen were n't supposed to be afraid of such things , but that did n't change the fact that the deep , caliginous mist was just plain creepy .
544 be-did Indeed , Mr. Bush 's hapless attempt at a takedown suggests that his political team still does n't get it , and thinks that pointing out The Donald 's heresies will be enough to doom his campaign.But Mr. Trump , who is self-financing , did n't need to genuflect to the big money , and it turns out that the base does n't mind his heresies .
545 be-end Trump may be very different from past candidates , but his story could easily end the way theirs did .
546 be-end Our plans may be a bit crazy , but I 'd rather not have them end with you splattered across the cobblestones down there . ''
547 be-enter He expressed a reluctance to enter the campaign fray , because it could be unhelpful to his brother and unseemly .
548 be-excited Excited to be part of the job again -- excited , even , to be back among the nobility , with their splendor and grace .
549 be-excited Excited to be part of the job again -- excited , even , to be back among the nobility , with their splendor and grace .
550 be-hesitate I hesitate to go and leave you , but that room will be filled with the self-important servants of the high nobility .
551 be-hesitate We may be friends , but when it comes to fighting , none of us would hesitate to kill the others . ''
552 be-hold The plan failed , but Mr. Graham has made the case that Republicans are in danger of further losing Hispanic support because of opposition to immigration reform.Strategists say that fund-raising will be an obstacle for Mr. Graham but that if his candidacy gains traction he could benefit from South Carolina 's status as a the second state to hold a primary .
553 be-hold We might be able to raise Yeden an army -- we might even be able to get him one large enough to hold the city for a while .
554 be-hold It could hold the palace with ease -- might even be able to hold the city , if it had the walls . ''
555 be-hold We 're going to give you an army of well-equipped , well-fed men -- and I 'll be damned if I 'm going to let you get them slaughtered because they were never taught which end of the sword to hold . ''
556 be-hold `` In two months ' time , I want this city to be so tense that when it finally breaks , even the Lord Ruler wo n't be able to hold it together . ''
557 be-is A veto override must pass both the House and Senate by a two-thirds vote.Approving new sanctions , even many set to be lifted as part of the accord , is one possible path , said several aides to lawmakers , because it would both send a message to Tehran and the White House and put Democrats in a difficult position.Under the agreement reached with six world powers , Iran would be released from congressionally imposed sanctions related to its nuclear program .
558 be-is KABUL , Afghanistan - After suffering setbacks and heavy casualties at the hands of the Taliban in 2014 , Afghan security forces came into this year with what Afghan and Western officials acknowledge were relatively modest goals : hang on till the end of the fighting season without major collapses.But with months of heavy fighting still ahead , 2015 is already shaping up to be worse for the Afghan Army and the national police , even as President Obama is set to begin deliberating this year on whether to follow through with a complete withdrawal of the United States military assistance mission here in 2016 .
559 be-is One exception is a 5.3 percent gain in median wages among Hispanics in 2014 , though that is within the statistical margin of error and so may not be meaningful.If you were to sum up the latest census numbers on incomes in the United States in 2014 , it would be with these three words : ` not statistically different . '
560 be-is One exception is a 5.3 percent gain in median wages among Hispanics in 2014 , though that is within the statistical margin of error and so may not be meaningful.If you were to sum up the latest census numbers on incomes in the United States in 2014 , it would be with these three words : ` not statistically different . '
561 be-is ` Asked if he believed that , given the depth of Iran 's civil society , which in 2009 launched a ` green revolution ' challenging clerical rule , the forces there for greater integration with the world would be empowered by this deal , the president said : ` With respect to Iran , it is a great civilization , but it also has an authoritarian theocracy in charge that is anti-American , anti-Israeli , anti-Semitic , sponsors terrorism , and there are a whole host of real profound differences that we have with them , ' said the president .
562 be-is ` But we 're not counting on that , ' the president stressed , ` and that 's the thing I want to emphasize , because even over the last several weeks and today , as we announce the deal , what 's been striking to me is that , increasingly , the critics are shifting off the nuclear issue , and they 're moving into , ` Well , even if the nuclear issue is dealt with , they 're still going to be sponsoring terrorism , and they 're going to get this sanctions relief .
563 be-is ` In the same way that when Ronald Reagan and others negotiated arms agreement with the Soviet Union , you had to recognize , yes , this is an evil , terrible system , but within it are people with specific historic ideas and memories , and we have to be able to understand those things and potentially try to make some connection .
564 be-is ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
565 be-is ` Your wallet is the best ballot , ' said Barrett Silver , who signed the parent petition urging the prom to be relocated.Officials at Horace Greeley said that they were open to moving the prom , which takes place next spring , but that the decision would ultimately be left to the students , who finance and organize the event.The business losses from moving the 300-person prom is unlikely to sting Mr. Trump , who has absorbed millions of dollars in severed corporate ventures since he started his presidential campaign in June .
566 be-is ` Your wallet is the best ballot , ' said Barrett Silver , who signed the parent petition urging the prom to be relocated.Officials at Horace Greeley said that they were open to moving the prom , which takes place next spring , but that the decision would ultimately be left to the students , who finance and organize the event.The business losses from moving the 300-person prom is unlikely to sting Mr. Trump , who has absorbed millions of dollars in severed corporate ventures since he started his presidential campaign in June .
567 be-is And as Brendan Nyhan has explained , the furor over her private email account is likely to affect far fewer voters than may now appear to be the case.But what if the unlikely happens , and she is forced to abandon her planned presidential campaign because of a development we ca n't now anticipate ?
568 be-is He noted that Mr. de Blasio 's popularity has fallen among black New Yorkers , and said he believed it would be healthy for the city if Mr. de Blasio had a re-election fight.Though Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Stringer are most often discussed as potential opponents for the mayor in a Democratic primary , there is a longer list of possible challengers , including Ruben Diaz Jr. , the Bronx borough president ; Eric L. Adams , the Brooklyn borough president ; Letitia James , the public advocate ; and Melissa Mark-Viverito , the City Council speaker .
569 be-is He is a former white-shoe corporate lawyer and also a longtime critic of aggressive policing , practiced at wooing rank-and-file Democrats and city elites at the same time.A vocal supporter of Israel , Mr. Jeffries has attracted significant funding from national Jewish donors over the years , though his support for the Iran deal could be an obstacle in the future .
570 be-is And he said that his party had drifted rightward enough that someone like Ronald Reagan would have difficulty finding a receptive home in it.That assessment suggested one reason Bush is now deemed a centrist : The poles have moved.But much of his record in Florida is that of the ` headbanging conservative ' he claimed to be during a first , unsuccessful campaign for governor in 1994 .
571 be-is ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
572 be-is ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
573 be-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
574 be-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
575 be-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
576 be-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
577 be-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
578 be-is The rally will take place - where else - on the Capitol 's lawn.The issue is particularly tense because the question of appropriating money to the organization has become entangled in the debate over the budget , which has to be dealt with before the government runs out of spending authority on ` Sept. 30 .
579 be-is ` If Trump is n't offering workable solutions but he is identifying problems that others have ignored , the hope is some more policy-focused , more governance-focused competitor will make use of the opportunity that Trump has publicized , ' Mr. Frum said.In an analogy that wo n't make anyone very comfortable , he said Mr. Trump could be useful in the same way George Wallace was in 1968 : ` Wallace talked about a lot of issues , many of them pretty dismaying , but he also seized on the crime issue .
580 be-is However , this is n't much of a problem -- though it does mean that you 're going to have to be very careful when dealing with House Venture , Lord Renoux .
581 be-is My ego may be considerable , but this is about something else entirely . ''
582 be-is `` You know , something must be wrong with me -- I barely even stop to think how much this stuff is worth anymore . ''
583 be-is `` Well , I heard that Tren-Pedri is n't at all interested in a union with House Aime , though her father is implying that there will be a wedding soon .
584 be-is `` Kell , there might not be many guards with the prisoners , but the fountain square is only a few blocks away .
585 be-is A lot.A wide range of political science research suggests that if you want to know who will win the presidency , the state of the economy - and especially how economic conditions are changing - matters a great deal , perhaps even more than how charismatic the candidates are or how much money they raise.The election is 16 months away , but knowing what we know now , what should we expect the economic backdrop to be when Americans choose their next president ?
586 be-is That is a poor number historically , but it was down from 8.6 percent a year earlier.Some research has found that the economy matters less when the race for the presidency is wide open , as it will be in 2016 , than when there is an incumbent on the ballot for whom the vote can be viewed as a referendum .
587 be-is That is a poor number historically , but it was down from 8.6 percent a year earlier.Some research has found that the economy matters less when the race for the presidency is wide open , as it will be in 2016 , than when there is an incumbent on the ballot for whom the vote can be viewed as a referendum .
588 be-is But moderator Campbell Brown says the purpose of the standards is for students to understand math concepts in a deeper way.Jindal says parents should be able to send their children to schools that teach Common Core if they choose , but it should n't be mandated in all schools .
589 be-is The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
590 be-is ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
591 be-is It is a consistent part of his pitch to voters_that he 's `` very rich '' and therefore can not be induced to indulge a narrow special interest.The argument plays into the current political frustration with Washington , but it is as self-serving as it is dangerous to democracy .
592 be-is It is a consistent part of his pitch to voters_that he 's `` very rich '' and therefore can not be induced to indulge a narrow special interest.The argument plays into the current political frustration with Washington , but it is as self-serving as it is dangerous to democracy .
593 be-is What he 's really saying is that nobody who is n't wealthy should be able to run for President because only the superrich can be untainted by political corruption.But most politicians are n't rich , which means they have to raise money from others .
594 be-is What he 's really saying is that nobody who is n't wealthy should be able to run for President because only the superrich can be untainted by political corruption.But most politicians are n't rich , which means they have to raise money from others .
595 be-is The truth is that even if he never takes a nickel from a lobbyist , Mr. Trump will still be influenced by his largest campaign donor_himself .
596 be-is A new government will have to prove it is up to the job.When the public reporting regulations do come in , however , they should be demanding , and backed up by sufficiently robust fines to compel compliance .
597 be-is During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
598 be-is ` The presidential election is , of course , in 2016 , but Mr. Sanders can be forgiven for living in the moment .
599 be-is If Mrs. Clinton 's pitch to voters is that she can make the system more effective , Mr. Sanders is arguing that Mr. Obama was naïve to even bother with a system that needs to be fundamentally changed.It is not a new message for Mr. Sanders , who came up in radical left politics , but the response is something unfamiliar .
600 be-is If Mrs. Clinton 's pitch to voters is that she can make the system more effective , Mr. Sanders is arguing that Mr. Obama was naïve to even bother with a system that needs to be fundamentally changed.It is not a new message for Mr. Sanders , who came up in radical left politics , but the response is something unfamiliar .
601 be-is If Mrs. Clinton 's pitch to voters is that she can make the system more effective , Mr. Sanders is arguing that Mr. Obama was naïve to even bother with a system that needs to be fundamentally changed.It is not a new message for Mr. Sanders , who came up in radical left politics , but the response is something unfamiliar .
602 be-is That would be good for eurozone exporters , because their products would be cheaper for customers paying in other currencies.Still , at a news conference on Thursday , Mr. Draghi is almost certain to at least repeat earlier statements that the central bank is ready to deploy further stimulus if circumstances warrant.As of Aug. 28 , the central bank had spent 290 billion newly created euros , or about $ 327 billion , buying eurozone government bonds on open markets .
603 be-is That would be good for eurozone exporters , because their products would be cheaper for customers paying in other currencies.Still , at a news conference on Thursday , Mr. Draghi is almost certain to at least repeat earlier statements that the central bank is ready to deploy further stimulus if circumstances warrant.As of Aug. 28 , the central bank had spent 290 billion newly created euros , or about $ 327 billion , buying eurozone government bonds on open markets .
604 be-is Fears have faded that Greece will be forced to drop out of the eurozone , but the country 's economy is still in a shambles and there is uncertainty about whether a stable government will emerge after national elections scheduled for Sept. 20 .
605 be-is Fears have faded that Greece will be forced to drop out of the eurozone , but the country 's economy is still in a shambles and there is uncertainty about whether a stable government will emerge after national elections scheduled for Sept. 20 .
606 be-is ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
607 be-is ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
608 be-is ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
609 be-is Indeed , Mr. Bush 's hapless attempt at a takedown suggests that his political team still does n't get it , and thinks that pointing out The Donald 's heresies will be enough to doom his campaign.But Mr. Trump , who is self-financing , did n't need to genuflect to the big money , and it turns out that the base does n't mind his heresies .
610 be-is WASHINGTON - Even a presidential candidate 's most devoted supporters could be forgiven for trying to tune out the torrent of campaign emails , Twitter messages , Facebook posts , Instagrams and Snapchats that steadily flood voters ' inboxes and social-media feeds in this digitized , pixelated , endlessly streaming election cycle.But a text message is different.A text message - despite its no-frills , retro essence - is something personal .
611 be-is WASHINGTON - Even a presidential candidate 's most devoted supporters could be forgiven for trying to tune out the torrent of campaign emails , Twitter messages , Facebook posts , Instagrams and Snapchats that steadily flood voters ' inboxes and social-media feeds in this digitized , pixelated , endlessly streaming election cycle.But a text message is different.A text message - despite its no-frills , retro essence - is something personal .
612 be-is A veto override must pass both the House and Senate by a two-thirds vote.Approving new sanctions , even many set to be lifted as part of the accord , is one possible path , said several aides to lawmakers , because it would both send a message to Tehran and the White House and put Democrats in a difficult position.Under the agreement reached with six world powers , Iran would be released from congressionally imposed sanctions related to its nuclear program .
613 be-is KABUL , Afghanistan - After suffering setbacks and heavy casualties at the hands of the Taliban in 2014 , Afghan security forces came into this year with what Afghan and Western officials acknowledge were relatively modest goals : hang on till the end of the fighting season without major collapses.But with months of heavy fighting still ahead , 2015 is already shaping up to be worse for the Afghan Army and the national police , even as President Obama is set to begin deliberating this year on whether to follow through with a complete withdrawal of the United States military assistance mission here in 2016 .
614 be-is One exception is a 5.3 percent gain in median wages among Hispanics in 2014 , though that is within the statistical margin of error and so may not be meaningful.If you were to sum up the latest census numbers on incomes in the United States in 2014 , it would be with these three words : ` not statistically different . '
615 be-is One exception is a 5.3 percent gain in median wages among Hispanics in 2014 , though that is within the statistical margin of error and so may not be meaningful.If you were to sum up the latest census numbers on incomes in the United States in 2014 , it would be with these three words : ` not statistically different . '
616 be-is ` Asked if he believed that , given the depth of Iran 's civil society , which in 2009 launched a ` green revolution ' challenging clerical rule , the forces there for greater integration with the world would be empowered by this deal , the president said : ` With respect to Iran , it is a great civilization , but it also has an authoritarian theocracy in charge that is anti-American , anti-Israeli , anti-Semitic , sponsors terrorism , and there are a whole host of real profound differences that we have with them , ' said the president .
617 be-is ` But we 're not counting on that , ' the president stressed , ` and that 's the thing I want to emphasize , because even over the last several weeks and today , as we announce the deal , what 's been striking to me is that , increasingly , the critics are shifting off the nuclear issue , and they 're moving into , ` Well , even if the nuclear issue is dealt with , they 're still going to be sponsoring terrorism , and they 're going to get this sanctions relief .
618 be-is ` In the same way that when Ronald Reagan and others negotiated arms agreement with the Soviet Union , you had to recognize , yes , this is an evil , terrible system , but within it are people with specific historic ideas and memories , and we have to be able to understand those things and potentially try to make some connection .
619 be-is ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
620 be-is ` Your wallet is the best ballot , ' said Barrett Silver , who signed the parent petition urging the prom to be relocated.Officials at Horace Greeley said that they were open to moving the prom , which takes place next spring , but that the decision would ultimately be left to the students , who finance and organize the event.The business losses from moving the 300-person prom is unlikely to sting Mr. Trump , who has absorbed millions of dollars in severed corporate ventures since he started his presidential campaign in June .
621 be-is ` Your wallet is the best ballot , ' said Barrett Silver , who signed the parent petition urging the prom to be relocated.Officials at Horace Greeley said that they were open to moving the prom , which takes place next spring , but that the decision would ultimately be left to the students , who finance and organize the event.The business losses from moving the 300-person prom is unlikely to sting Mr. Trump , who has absorbed millions of dollars in severed corporate ventures since he started his presidential campaign in June .
622 be-is And as Brendan Nyhan has explained , the furor over her private email account is likely to affect far fewer voters than may now appear to be the case.But what if the unlikely happens , and she is forced to abandon her planned presidential campaign because of a development we ca n't now anticipate ?
623 be-is He noted that Mr. de Blasio 's popularity has fallen among black New Yorkers , and said he believed it would be healthy for the city if Mr. de Blasio had a re-election fight.Though Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Stringer are most often discussed as potential opponents for the mayor in a Democratic primary , there is a longer list of possible challengers , including Ruben Diaz Jr. , the Bronx borough president ; Eric L. Adams , the Brooklyn borough president ; Letitia James , the public advocate ; and Melissa Mark-Viverito , the City Council speaker .
624 be-is He is a former white-shoe corporate lawyer and also a longtime critic of aggressive policing , practiced at wooing rank-and-file Democrats and city elites at the same time.A vocal supporter of Israel , Mr. Jeffries has attracted significant funding from national Jewish donors over the years , though his support for the Iran deal could be an obstacle in the future .
625 be-is And he said that his party had drifted rightward enough that someone like Ronald Reagan would have difficulty finding a receptive home in it.That assessment suggested one reason Bush is now deemed a centrist : The poles have moved.But much of his record in Florida is that of the ` headbanging conservative ' he claimed to be during a first , unsuccessful campaign for governor in 1994 .
626 be-is ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
627 be-is ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
628 be-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
629 be-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
630 be-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
631 be-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
632 be-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
633 be-is The rally will take place - where else - on the Capitol 's lawn.The issue is particularly tense because the question of appropriating money to the organization has become entangled in the debate over the budget , which has to be dealt with before the government runs out of spending authority on ` Sept. 30 .
634 be-is ` If Trump is n't offering workable solutions but he is identifying problems that others have ignored , the hope is some more policy-focused , more governance-focused competitor will make use of the opportunity that Trump has publicized , ' Mr. Frum said.In an analogy that wo n't make anyone very comfortable , he said Mr. Trump could be useful in the same way George Wallace was in 1968 : ` Wallace talked about a lot of issues , many of them pretty dismaying , but he also seized on the crime issue .
635 be-is However , this is n't much of a problem -- though it does mean that you 're going to have to be very careful when dealing with House Venture , Lord Renoux .
636 be-is My ego may be considerable , but this is about something else entirely . ''
637 be-is `` You know , something must be wrong with me -- I barely even stop to think how much this stuff is worth anymore . ''
638 be-is `` Well , I heard that Tren-Pedri is n't at all interested in a union with House Aime , though her father is implying that there will be a wedding soon .
639 be-is `` Kell , there might not be many guards with the prisoners , but the fountain square is only a few blocks away .
640 be-is A lot.A wide range of political science research suggests that if you want to know who will win the presidency , the state of the economy - and especially how economic conditions are changing - matters a great deal , perhaps even more than how charismatic the candidates are or how much money they raise.The election is 16 months away , but knowing what we know now , what should we expect the economic backdrop to be when Americans choose their next president ?
641 be-is That is a poor number historically , but it was down from 8.6 percent a year earlier.Some research has found that the economy matters less when the race for the presidency is wide open , as it will be in 2016 , than when there is an incumbent on the ballot for whom the vote can be viewed as a referendum .
642 be-is That is a poor number historically , but it was down from 8.6 percent a year earlier.Some research has found that the economy matters less when the race for the presidency is wide open , as it will be in 2016 , than when there is an incumbent on the ballot for whom the vote can be viewed as a referendum .
643 be-is But moderator Campbell Brown says the purpose of the standards is for students to understand math concepts in a deeper way.Jindal says parents should be able to send their children to schools that teach Common Core if they choose , but it should n't be mandated in all schools .
644 be-is The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
645 be-is ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
646 be-is It is a consistent part of his pitch to voters_that he 's `` very rich '' and therefore can not be induced to indulge a narrow special interest.The argument plays into the current political frustration with Washington , but it is as self-serving as it is dangerous to democracy .
647 be-is It is a consistent part of his pitch to voters_that he 's `` very rich '' and therefore can not be induced to indulge a narrow special interest.The argument plays into the current political frustration with Washington , but it is as self-serving as it is dangerous to democracy .
648 be-is What he 's really saying is that nobody who is n't wealthy should be able to run for President because only the superrich can be untainted by political corruption.But most politicians are n't rich , which means they have to raise money from others .
649 be-is What he 's really saying is that nobody who is n't wealthy should be able to run for President because only the superrich can be untainted by political corruption.But most politicians are n't rich , which means they have to raise money from others .
650 be-is The truth is that even if he never takes a nickel from a lobbyist , Mr. Trump will still be influenced by his largest campaign donor_himself .
651 be-is A new government will have to prove it is up to the job.When the public reporting regulations do come in , however , they should be demanding , and backed up by sufficiently robust fines to compel compliance .
652 be-is During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
653 be-is ` The presidential election is , of course , in 2016 , but Mr. Sanders can be forgiven for living in the moment .
654 be-is If Mrs. Clinton 's pitch to voters is that she can make the system more effective , Mr. Sanders is arguing that Mr. Obama was naïve to even bother with a system that needs to be fundamentally changed.It is not a new message for Mr. Sanders , who came up in radical left politics , but the response is something unfamiliar .
655 be-is If Mrs. Clinton 's pitch to voters is that she can make the system more effective , Mr. Sanders is arguing that Mr. Obama was naïve to even bother with a system that needs to be fundamentally changed.It is not a new message for Mr. Sanders , who came up in radical left politics , but the response is something unfamiliar .
656 be-is If Mrs. Clinton 's pitch to voters is that she can make the system more effective , Mr. Sanders is arguing that Mr. Obama was naïve to even bother with a system that needs to be fundamentally changed.It is not a new message for Mr. Sanders , who came up in radical left politics , but the response is something unfamiliar .
657 be-is That would be good for eurozone exporters , because their products would be cheaper for customers paying in other currencies.Still , at a news conference on Thursday , Mr. Draghi is almost certain to at least repeat earlier statements that the central bank is ready to deploy further stimulus if circumstances warrant.As of Aug. 28 , the central bank had spent 290 billion newly created euros , or about $ 327 billion , buying eurozone government bonds on open markets .
658 be-is That would be good for eurozone exporters , because their products would be cheaper for customers paying in other currencies.Still , at a news conference on Thursday , Mr. Draghi is almost certain to at least repeat earlier statements that the central bank is ready to deploy further stimulus if circumstances warrant.As of Aug. 28 , the central bank had spent 290 billion newly created euros , or about $ 327 billion , buying eurozone government bonds on open markets .
659 be-is Fears have faded that Greece will be forced to drop out of the eurozone , but the country 's economy is still in a shambles and there is uncertainty about whether a stable government will emerge after national elections scheduled for Sept. 20 .
660 be-is Fears have faded that Greece will be forced to drop out of the eurozone , but the country 's economy is still in a shambles and there is uncertainty about whether a stable government will emerge after national elections scheduled for Sept. 20 .
661 be-is ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
662 be-is ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
663 be-is ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
664 be-is Indeed , Mr. Bush 's hapless attempt at a takedown suggests that his political team still does n't get it , and thinks that pointing out The Donald 's heresies will be enough to doom his campaign.But Mr. Trump , who is self-financing , did n't need to genuflect to the big money , and it turns out that the base does n't mind his heresies .
665 be-is WASHINGTON - Even a presidential candidate 's most devoted supporters could be forgiven for trying to tune out the torrent of campaign emails , Twitter messages , Facebook posts , Instagrams and Snapchats that steadily flood voters ' inboxes and social-media feeds in this digitized , pixelated , endlessly streaming election cycle.But a text message is different.A text message - despite its no-frills , retro essence - is something personal .
666 be-is WASHINGTON - Even a presidential candidate 's most devoted supporters could be forgiven for trying to tune out the torrent of campaign emails , Twitter messages , Facebook posts , Instagrams and Snapchats that steadily flood voters ' inboxes and social-media feeds in this digitized , pixelated , endlessly streaming election cycle.But a text message is different.A text message - despite its no-frills , retro essence - is something personal .
667 be-lose Clinton may be a primary juggernaut , but she could surely lose to a Republican in November 2016 .
668 be-mentioned Hoid had n't mentioned Kelsier 's tardiness , but Kelsier 's next appointment would not be so forgiving .
669 be-painted Politico painted Mr. Bush 's situation as dire , and The Atlantic said that the undercard debate might even be the more interesting forum .
670 be-pass A veto override must pass both the House and Senate by a two-thirds vote.Approving new sanctions , even many set to be lifted as part of the accord , is one possible path , said several aides to lawmakers , because it would both send a message to Tehran and the White House and put Democrats in a difficult position.Under the agreement reached with six world powers , Iran would be released from congressionally imposed sanctions related to its nuclear program .
671 be-pass ` One of the first things Congress will do when we finish this debate , I would say give it 60 days , we will pass that extension ' on sanctions , Mr. Corker told reporters after a briefing with Energy Secretary Ernest J. Moniz.But additional options could be in the offing .
672 be-pass And , in one instance , the House failed miserably to pass a tax increase even after locking its members into the chamber for hours while leaders tried to threaten some into changing their votes.On Thursday afternoon , Gov. Sam Brownback stood before his fellow Republicans , who dominate the Legislature , to deliver what seemed to be a mix of a basketball coach 's pep talk and a scorned lover 's plea .
673 be-playing `` Trump will be Trump , Ben will be Ben , and the contrast could n't be clearer , '' Bennett said.In contrast to other campaigns , no one has been playing Trump during Carson 's debate preparation sessions , which are somewhat unusual .
674 be-playing `` Trump will be Trump , Ben will be Ben , and the contrast could n't be clearer , '' Bennett said.In contrast to other campaigns , no one has been playing Trump during Carson 's debate preparation sessions , which are somewhat unusual .
675 be-playing `` Trump will be Trump , Ben will be Ben , and the contrast could n't be clearer , '' Bennett said.In contrast to other campaigns , no one has been playing Trump during Carson 's debate preparation sessions , which are somewhat unusual .
676 be-playing His contract included playing the part of Lord Renoux , but he did n't wish to be involved in the plan anymore than he had to .
677 be-prevail ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
678 be-prevail ` There are also primary contests in Ohio , where former Gov. Ted Strickland , a Democrat , is widely expected to prevail ; Florida ; Pennsylvania ; and a handful of other states.While some Democrats view their primaries as less consequential because they are in states that will not be very competitive in the general election , that may not be true in a state like Florida , where Mr. Grayson is to the left of many Democrats .
679 be-reading He could n't possibly be as bad as the Lord Ruler , but ... she was reading more and more of the logbook .
680 be-run `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
681 be-run `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
682 be-run `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
683 be-run `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
684 be-run What he 's really saying is that nobody who is n't wealthy should be able to run for President because only the superrich can be untainted by political corruption.But most politicians are n't rich , which means they have to raise money from others .
685 be-run During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
686 be-s The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
687 be-s The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
688 be-s How prominent should Mr. Obama seek to be , especially in the first few years?One top aide said Mr. Obama respected Mr. Bush 's decision to limit his time in public after leaving office , but also admired Mr. Clinton 's aggressive use of the spotlight to press his agenda .
689 be-s And Mr. Giles just set up a nonprofit to promote Mr. Carson 's views using money from donors whose gifts can be unlimited , but whose identities can legally be kept secret .
690 be-s Similarly , Ted Cruz and Scott Walker responded to the murder of a sheriff 's deputy in Texas with statements blaming Mr. Obama for increased anti-police language , which they suggested endangers public safety and law enforcement.Some G.O.P. strategists fear that these tactics could be damaging in the general election , but the party 's turn toward a hard-edged message on crime can be interpreted as an attempt to find a noneconomic issue it can use against Democrats .
691 be-s Similarly , Ted Cruz and Scott Walker responded to the murder of a sheriff 's deputy in Texas with statements blaming Mr. Obama for increased anti-police language , which they suggested endangers public safety and law enforcement.Some G.O.P. strategists fear that these tactics could be damaging in the general election , but the party 's turn toward a hard-edged message on crime can be interpreted as an attempt to find a noneconomic issue it can use against Democrats .
692 be-s DES MOINES , Iowa - President Barack Obama wo n't be on the ballot in 2016 , but on Monday he showed he 's looking for ways to put his imprint on the race to succeed him.On a visit to Iowa , the state that will have the first say in winnowing the presidential field , Obama drew sharp contrasts between Democratic policies and those of Republicans seeking to reclaim the White House .
693 be-s ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
694 be-s ` As Democratic Party officials see Bernie Sanders 's mounting strength with voters , I think they will begin to better understand that he will not only be a strong nominee who can help Democrats all across the country win elections , but he actually will be the white knight if they need one , ' said Mr. Devine , who was a past adviser to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore .
695 be-s More important , Republicans do not want to be targeted by conservative outside groups like Americans for Prosperity , the political advocacy group funded by the libertarian billionaires Charles and David Koch.Tim Phillips , the president of Americans for Prosperity , has said that his group intends to aggressively attack any Republican candidate in the 2016 primaries who endorses carbon regulations.But some Republican strategists worry that the position on climate change that could help win them their party 's nomination could hurt them in a general election , particularly in a contest with a larger number of young and minority voters .
696 be-s `` There may be cause for optimism , however , in the face of Gary Heavin , a cigar-chomping billionaire and Republican donor who was at Paul 's side much of the week , having arrived with the senator and some of the other doctors on his private jet.Heavin , the Texas-based founder of the Curves health club franchise , has been active in Haitian charity work since a 2010 earthquake left more than 100,000 dead and millions homeless in the nation 's capital , Port-au-Prince .
697 be-s But he appears to be connecting with Republican voters at a rate that even his closest aides did n't predict.Heading into Wednesday night 's second debate of the GOP contest , Carson finds himself alongside Trump atop the field.A New York Times/CBS News poll released Tuesday shows Carson favored by 23 percent of likely Republican primary voters compared to Trump 's 27 percent .
698 be-s His presidency appeared to be quickly slipping into lame-duck territory last year , but began to rebound after Democrats ' defeats in the midterm election and picked up momentum this summer.Summer has previously been Obama 's cruelest season : the hostile health care town halls in 2009 , the debt ceiling crisis in 2011 , the president 's waffling on Syria 's chemical weapons use in 2013 .
699 be-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
700 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
701 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
702 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
703 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
704 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
705 be-s The rally will take place - where else - on the Capitol 's lawn.The issue is particularly tense because the question of appropriating money to the organization has become entangled in the debate over the budget , which has to be dealt with before the government runs out of spending authority on ` Sept. 30 .
706 be-s For example , many of them including Mr. Frum advocate a significantly more restrictive immigration policy , arguing that high immigration levels , particularly for low-skilled workers , cut against the economic interests of ordinary Americans.Hmm.There happens to be a Republican candidate for president who wants less immigration but also thinks it 's ` outrageous ' how little tax some rich people pay , and he 's doing pretty well in the polls .
707 be-s For example , many of them including Mr. Frum advocate a significantly more restrictive immigration policy , arguing that high immigration levels , particularly for low-skilled workers , cut against the economic interests of ordinary Americans.Hmm.There happens to be a Republican candidate for president who wants less immigration but also thinks it 's ` outrageous ' how little tax some rich people pay , and he 's doing pretty well in the polls .
708 be-s The opening has also sparked speculation that Vice President Joe Biden could be a late entry into the Democratic contest.But it 's the surveys showing voters have questions about Clinton 's integrity that are the most troubling for her campaign.In a recent Quinnipiac University poll , 61 percent of voters said they did not consider Clinton honest and trustworthy compared to 34 percent who did ascribe those qualities to her .
709 be-s The Ministry 's Canton of Finance was an imposing structure -- but , then , everything about the Steel Ministry tended to be imposing .
710 be-s He might not be a mistwraith , but he 's not skaa either .
711 be-s `` That 's because you had to be delicate , '' Kelsier said with a devious smile .
712 be-s She might be a powerful Allomancer , but she 's inexperienced .
713 be-s And Kelsier says the entire land used to be even more fertile than a nobleman 's garden .
714 be-s `` He 's too clever to be insubordinate , '' Ham said , `` but he 's been making trouble quietly .
715 be-s He 's a powerful Allomancer , but he does n't know everything -- if he did , we 'd be dead right now .
716 be-s `` He might not be a god , but ... he 's something , Kelsier .
717 be-s He claims that he 's doing something to protect the entire world , but that might just be his ego coming through . ''
718 be-s Felt thinks she 's a thief , but there have to be other reasons a group like that would send someone to balls .
719 be-s The men 's voices grew distant ; even running , they would n't be able to keep up with her .
720 be-s This would be a transformative step toward modernizing the nation 's archaic , error-filled approach to registering voters.No state currently has such inclusive registration , although Oregon came closest in March when it passed a law automatically registering eligible citizens with a driver 's license - instantly adding 300,000 voters to the rolls .
721 be-s ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
722 be-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
723 be-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
724 be-s ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
725 be-s What he 's really saying is that nobody who is n't wealthy should be able to run for President because only the superrich can be untainted by political corruption.But most politicians are n't rich , which means they have to raise money from others .
726 be-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
727 be-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
728 be-s During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
729 be-s For example , just read one recent paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.The two physicians in the debate , Ben Carson and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , argued that while science connecting vaccines and autism is lacking , spreading out the childhood vaccination schedule might be advisable.But that 's a position strongly opposed by the medical community - because there is no link between autism and vaccination , spacing vaccines will not reduce the risk of a child developing autism.But because many parents ask for such delayed schedules , doctors often accommodate such demands , putting children at risk of catching diseases before they are vaccinated or potentially failing to complete their recommended vaccines.Failing to vaccinate children has clear health risks .
730 be-s Fears have faded that Greece will be forced to drop out of the eurozone , but the country 's economy is still in a shambles and there is uncertainty about whether a stable government will emerge after national elections scheduled for Sept. 20 .
731 be-s European Central Bank purchases would help raise the market value of those bonds and help restore confidence in the country 's banks.And Greeks who have withdrawn cash from their accounts might begin depositing money again and help the banking system return to normal.But economists and investors hoping for powerful action by the European Central Bank on Thursday may be disappointed .
732 be-s The legislators who sponsored the 2013 law have refused to testify , citing legislative immunity.During closing arguments Friday , Judge Schroeder , who was appointed by President George W. Bush , peppered the plaintiffs ' lawyers with questions about why the repeal of extra voting opportunities that do not exist in many states would be illegal.But he also pressed the state 's lawyers on what motivated legislators to make the sudden changes to a system that seemed to be popular and working well .
733 be-s ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
734 be-s Mr. Perry 's advisers were uncertain what would happen with the super PAC money , but noted that much of it came from a pair of Dallas executives , Kelcy Warren and Darwin Deason , and that they would be consulted .
735 be-s The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
736 be-s The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
737 be-s How prominent should Mr. Obama seek to be , especially in the first few years?One top aide said Mr. Obama respected Mr. Bush 's decision to limit his time in public after leaving office , but also admired Mr. Clinton 's aggressive use of the spotlight to press his agenda .
738 be-s And Mr. Giles just set up a nonprofit to promote Mr. Carson 's views using money from donors whose gifts can be unlimited , but whose identities can legally be kept secret .
739 be-s Similarly , Ted Cruz and Scott Walker responded to the murder of a sheriff 's deputy in Texas with statements blaming Mr. Obama for increased anti-police language , which they suggested endangers public safety and law enforcement.Some G.O.P. strategists fear that these tactics could be damaging in the general election , but the party 's turn toward a hard-edged message on crime can be interpreted as an attempt to find a noneconomic issue it can use against Democrats .
740 be-s Similarly , Ted Cruz and Scott Walker responded to the murder of a sheriff 's deputy in Texas with statements blaming Mr. Obama for increased anti-police language , which they suggested endangers public safety and law enforcement.Some G.O.P. strategists fear that these tactics could be damaging in the general election , but the party 's turn toward a hard-edged message on crime can be interpreted as an attempt to find a noneconomic issue it can use against Democrats .
741 be-s DES MOINES , Iowa - President Barack Obama wo n't be on the ballot in 2016 , but on Monday he showed he 's looking for ways to put his imprint on the race to succeed him.On a visit to Iowa , the state that will have the first say in winnowing the presidential field , Obama drew sharp contrasts between Democratic policies and those of Republicans seeking to reclaim the White House .
742 be-s ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
743 be-s ` As Democratic Party officials see Bernie Sanders 's mounting strength with voters , I think they will begin to better understand that he will not only be a strong nominee who can help Democrats all across the country win elections , but he actually will be the white knight if they need one , ' said Mr. Devine , who was a past adviser to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore .
744 be-s More important , Republicans do not want to be targeted by conservative outside groups like Americans for Prosperity , the political advocacy group funded by the libertarian billionaires Charles and David Koch.Tim Phillips , the president of Americans for Prosperity , has said that his group intends to aggressively attack any Republican candidate in the 2016 primaries who endorses carbon regulations.But some Republican strategists worry that the position on climate change that could help win them their party 's nomination could hurt them in a general election , particularly in a contest with a larger number of young and minority voters .
745 be-s `` There may be cause for optimism , however , in the face of Gary Heavin , a cigar-chomping billionaire and Republican donor who was at Paul 's side much of the week , having arrived with the senator and some of the other doctors on his private jet.Heavin , the Texas-based founder of the Curves health club franchise , has been active in Haitian charity work since a 2010 earthquake left more than 100,000 dead and millions homeless in the nation 's capital , Port-au-Prince .
746 be-s But he appears to be connecting with Republican voters at a rate that even his closest aides did n't predict.Heading into Wednesday night 's second debate of the GOP contest , Carson finds himself alongside Trump atop the field.A New York Times/CBS News poll released Tuesday shows Carson favored by 23 percent of likely Republican primary voters compared to Trump 's 27 percent .
747 be-s His presidency appeared to be quickly slipping into lame-duck territory last year , but began to rebound after Democrats ' defeats in the midterm election and picked up momentum this summer.Summer has previously been Obama 's cruelest season : the hostile health care town halls in 2009 , the debt ceiling crisis in 2011 , the president 's waffling on Syria 's chemical weapons use in 2013 .
748 be-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
749 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
750 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
751 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
752 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
753 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
754 be-s The rally will take place - where else - on the Capitol 's lawn.The issue is particularly tense because the question of appropriating money to the organization has become entangled in the debate over the budget , which has to be dealt with before the government runs out of spending authority on ` Sept. 30 .
755 be-s For example , many of them including Mr. Frum advocate a significantly more restrictive immigration policy , arguing that high immigration levels , particularly for low-skilled workers , cut against the economic interests of ordinary Americans.Hmm.There happens to be a Republican candidate for president who wants less immigration but also thinks it 's ` outrageous ' how little tax some rich people pay , and he 's doing pretty well in the polls .
756 be-s For example , many of them including Mr. Frum advocate a significantly more restrictive immigration policy , arguing that high immigration levels , particularly for low-skilled workers , cut against the economic interests of ordinary Americans.Hmm.There happens to be a Republican candidate for president who wants less immigration but also thinks it 's ` outrageous ' how little tax some rich people pay , and he 's doing pretty well in the polls .
757 be-s The opening has also sparked speculation that Vice President Joe Biden could be a late entry into the Democratic contest.But it 's the surveys showing voters have questions about Clinton 's integrity that are the most troubling for her campaign.In a recent Quinnipiac University poll , 61 percent of voters said they did not consider Clinton honest and trustworthy compared to 34 percent who did ascribe those qualities to her .
758 be-s The Ministry 's Canton of Finance was an imposing structure -- but , then , everything about the Steel Ministry tended to be imposing .
759 be-s He might not be a mistwraith , but he 's not skaa either .
760 be-s `` That 's because you had to be delicate , '' Kelsier said with a devious smile .
761 be-s She might be a powerful Allomancer , but she 's inexperienced .
762 be-s And Kelsier says the entire land used to be even more fertile than a nobleman 's garden .
763 be-s `` He 's too clever to be insubordinate , '' Ham said , `` but he 's been making trouble quietly .
764 be-s He 's a powerful Allomancer , but he does n't know everything -- if he did , we 'd be dead right now .
765 be-s `` He might not be a god , but ... he 's something , Kelsier .
766 be-s He claims that he 's doing something to protect the entire world , but that might just be his ego coming through . ''
767 be-s Felt thinks she 's a thief , but there have to be other reasons a group like that would send someone to balls .
768 be-s The men 's voices grew distant ; even running , they would n't be able to keep up with her .
769 be-s This would be a transformative step toward modernizing the nation 's archaic , error-filled approach to registering voters.No state currently has such inclusive registration , although Oregon came closest in March when it passed a law automatically registering eligible citizens with a driver 's license - instantly adding 300,000 voters to the rolls .
770 be-s ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
771 be-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
772 be-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
773 be-s ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
774 be-s What he 's really saying is that nobody who is n't wealthy should be able to run for President because only the superrich can be untainted by political corruption.But most politicians are n't rich , which means they have to raise money from others .
775 be-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
776 be-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
777 be-s During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
778 be-s For example , just read one recent paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.The two physicians in the debate , Ben Carson and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , argued that while science connecting vaccines and autism is lacking , spreading out the childhood vaccination schedule might be advisable.But that 's a position strongly opposed by the medical community - because there is no link between autism and vaccination , spacing vaccines will not reduce the risk of a child developing autism.But because many parents ask for such delayed schedules , doctors often accommodate such demands , putting children at risk of catching diseases before they are vaccinated or potentially failing to complete their recommended vaccines.Failing to vaccinate children has clear health risks .
779 be-s Fears have faded that Greece will be forced to drop out of the eurozone , but the country 's economy is still in a shambles and there is uncertainty about whether a stable government will emerge after national elections scheduled for Sept. 20 .
780 be-s European Central Bank purchases would help raise the market value of those bonds and help restore confidence in the country 's banks.And Greeks who have withdrawn cash from their accounts might begin depositing money again and help the banking system return to normal.But economists and investors hoping for powerful action by the European Central Bank on Thursday may be disappointed .
781 be-s The legislators who sponsored the 2013 law have refused to testify , citing legislative immunity.During closing arguments Friday , Judge Schroeder , who was appointed by President George W. Bush , peppered the plaintiffs ' lawyers with questions about why the repeal of extra voting opportunities that do not exist in many states would be illegal.But he also pressed the state 's lawyers on what motivated legislators to make the sudden changes to a system that seemed to be popular and working well .
782 be-s ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
783 be-s Mr. Perry 's advisers were uncertain what would happen with the super PAC money , but noted that much of it came from a pair of Dallas executives , Kelcy Warren and Darwin Deason , and that they would be consulted .
784 be-s The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
785 be-s The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
786 be-s How prominent should Mr. Obama seek to be , especially in the first few years?One top aide said Mr. Obama respected Mr. Bush 's decision to limit his time in public after leaving office , but also admired Mr. Clinton 's aggressive use of the spotlight to press his agenda .
787 be-s And Mr. Giles just set up a nonprofit to promote Mr. Carson 's views using money from donors whose gifts can be unlimited , but whose identities can legally be kept secret .
788 be-s Similarly , Ted Cruz and Scott Walker responded to the murder of a sheriff 's deputy in Texas with statements blaming Mr. Obama for increased anti-police language , which they suggested endangers public safety and law enforcement.Some G.O.P. strategists fear that these tactics could be damaging in the general election , but the party 's turn toward a hard-edged message on crime can be interpreted as an attempt to find a noneconomic issue it can use against Democrats .
789 be-s Similarly , Ted Cruz and Scott Walker responded to the murder of a sheriff 's deputy in Texas with statements blaming Mr. Obama for increased anti-police language , which they suggested endangers public safety and law enforcement.Some G.O.P. strategists fear that these tactics could be damaging in the general election , but the party 's turn toward a hard-edged message on crime can be interpreted as an attempt to find a noneconomic issue it can use against Democrats .
790 be-s DES MOINES , Iowa - President Barack Obama wo n't be on the ballot in 2016 , but on Monday he showed he 's looking for ways to put his imprint on the race to succeed him.On a visit to Iowa , the state that will have the first say in winnowing the presidential field , Obama drew sharp contrasts between Democratic policies and those of Republicans seeking to reclaim the White House .
791 be-s ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
792 be-s ` As Democratic Party officials see Bernie Sanders 's mounting strength with voters , I think they will begin to better understand that he will not only be a strong nominee who can help Democrats all across the country win elections , but he actually will be the white knight if they need one , ' said Mr. Devine , who was a past adviser to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore .
793 be-s More important , Republicans do not want to be targeted by conservative outside groups like Americans for Prosperity , the political advocacy group funded by the libertarian billionaires Charles and David Koch.Tim Phillips , the president of Americans for Prosperity , has said that his group intends to aggressively attack any Republican candidate in the 2016 primaries who endorses carbon regulations.But some Republican strategists worry that the position on climate change that could help win them their party 's nomination could hurt them in a general election , particularly in a contest with a larger number of young and minority voters .
794 be-s `` There may be cause for optimism , however , in the face of Gary Heavin , a cigar-chomping billionaire and Republican donor who was at Paul 's side much of the week , having arrived with the senator and some of the other doctors on his private jet.Heavin , the Texas-based founder of the Curves health club franchise , has been active in Haitian charity work since a 2010 earthquake left more than 100,000 dead and millions homeless in the nation 's capital , Port-au-Prince .
795 be-s But he appears to be connecting with Republican voters at a rate that even his closest aides did n't predict.Heading into Wednesday night 's second debate of the GOP contest , Carson finds himself alongside Trump atop the field.A New York Times/CBS News poll released Tuesday shows Carson favored by 23 percent of likely Republican primary voters compared to Trump 's 27 percent .
796 be-s His presidency appeared to be quickly slipping into lame-duck territory last year , but began to rebound after Democrats ' defeats in the midterm election and picked up momentum this summer.Summer has previously been Obama 's cruelest season : the hostile health care town halls in 2009 , the debt ceiling crisis in 2011 , the president 's waffling on Syria 's chemical weapons use in 2013 .
797 be-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
798 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
799 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
800 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
801 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
802 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
803 be-s The rally will take place - where else - on the Capitol 's lawn.The issue is particularly tense because the question of appropriating money to the organization has become entangled in the debate over the budget , which has to be dealt with before the government runs out of spending authority on ` Sept. 30 .
804 be-s For example , many of them including Mr. Frum advocate a significantly more restrictive immigration policy , arguing that high immigration levels , particularly for low-skilled workers , cut against the economic interests of ordinary Americans.Hmm.There happens to be a Republican candidate for president who wants less immigration but also thinks it 's ` outrageous ' how little tax some rich people pay , and he 's doing pretty well in the polls .
805 be-s For example , many of them including Mr. Frum advocate a significantly more restrictive immigration policy , arguing that high immigration levels , particularly for low-skilled workers , cut against the economic interests of ordinary Americans.Hmm.There happens to be a Republican candidate for president who wants less immigration but also thinks it 's ` outrageous ' how little tax some rich people pay , and he 's doing pretty well in the polls .
806 be-s The opening has also sparked speculation that Vice President Joe Biden could be a late entry into the Democratic contest.But it 's the surveys showing voters have questions about Clinton 's integrity that are the most troubling for her campaign.In a recent Quinnipiac University poll , 61 percent of voters said they did not consider Clinton honest and trustworthy compared to 34 percent who did ascribe those qualities to her .
807 be-s The Ministry 's Canton of Finance was an imposing structure -- but , then , everything about the Steel Ministry tended to be imposing .
808 be-s He might not be a mistwraith , but he 's not skaa either .
809 be-s `` That 's because you had to be delicate , '' Kelsier said with a devious smile .
810 be-s She might be a powerful Allomancer , but she 's inexperienced .
811 be-s And Kelsier says the entire land used to be even more fertile than a nobleman 's garden .
812 be-s `` He 's too clever to be insubordinate , '' Ham said , `` but he 's been making trouble quietly .
813 be-s He 's a powerful Allomancer , but he does n't know everything -- if he did , we 'd be dead right now .
814 be-s `` He might not be a god , but ... he 's something , Kelsier .
815 be-s He claims that he 's doing something to protect the entire world , but that might just be his ego coming through . ''
816 be-s Felt thinks she 's a thief , but there have to be other reasons a group like that would send someone to balls .
817 be-s The men 's voices grew distant ; even running , they would n't be able to keep up with her .
818 be-s This would be a transformative step toward modernizing the nation 's archaic , error-filled approach to registering voters.No state currently has such inclusive registration , although Oregon came closest in March when it passed a law automatically registering eligible citizens with a driver 's license - instantly adding 300,000 voters to the rolls .
819 be-s ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
820 be-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
821 be-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
822 be-s ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
823 be-s What he 's really saying is that nobody who is n't wealthy should be able to run for President because only the superrich can be untainted by political corruption.But most politicians are n't rich , which means they have to raise money from others .
824 be-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
825 be-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
826 be-s During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
827 be-s For example , just read one recent paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.The two physicians in the debate , Ben Carson and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , argued that while science connecting vaccines and autism is lacking , spreading out the childhood vaccination schedule might be advisable.But that 's a position strongly opposed by the medical community - because there is no link between autism and vaccination , spacing vaccines will not reduce the risk of a child developing autism.But because many parents ask for such delayed schedules , doctors often accommodate such demands , putting children at risk of catching diseases before they are vaccinated or potentially failing to complete their recommended vaccines.Failing to vaccinate children has clear health risks .
828 be-s Fears have faded that Greece will be forced to drop out of the eurozone , but the country 's economy is still in a shambles and there is uncertainty about whether a stable government will emerge after national elections scheduled for Sept. 20 .
829 be-s European Central Bank purchases would help raise the market value of those bonds and help restore confidence in the country 's banks.And Greeks who have withdrawn cash from their accounts might begin depositing money again and help the banking system return to normal.But economists and investors hoping for powerful action by the European Central Bank on Thursday may be disappointed .
830 be-s The legislators who sponsored the 2013 law have refused to testify , citing legislative immunity.During closing arguments Friday , Judge Schroeder , who was appointed by President George W. Bush , peppered the plaintiffs ' lawyers with questions about why the repeal of extra voting opportunities that do not exist in many states would be illegal.But he also pressed the state 's lawyers on what motivated legislators to make the sudden changes to a system that seemed to be popular and working well .
831 be-s ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
832 be-s Mr. Perry 's advisers were uncertain what would happen with the super PAC money , but noted that much of it came from a pair of Dallas executives , Kelcy Warren and Darwin Deason , and that they would be consulted .
833 be-s The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
834 be-s The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
835 be-s How prominent should Mr. Obama seek to be , especially in the first few years?One top aide said Mr. Obama respected Mr. Bush 's decision to limit his time in public after leaving office , but also admired Mr. Clinton 's aggressive use of the spotlight to press his agenda .
836 be-s And Mr. Giles just set up a nonprofit to promote Mr. Carson 's views using money from donors whose gifts can be unlimited , but whose identities can legally be kept secret .
837 be-s Similarly , Ted Cruz and Scott Walker responded to the murder of a sheriff 's deputy in Texas with statements blaming Mr. Obama for increased anti-police language , which they suggested endangers public safety and law enforcement.Some G.O.P. strategists fear that these tactics could be damaging in the general election , but the party 's turn toward a hard-edged message on crime can be interpreted as an attempt to find a noneconomic issue it can use against Democrats .
838 be-s Similarly , Ted Cruz and Scott Walker responded to the murder of a sheriff 's deputy in Texas with statements blaming Mr. Obama for increased anti-police language , which they suggested endangers public safety and law enforcement.Some G.O.P. strategists fear that these tactics could be damaging in the general election , but the party 's turn toward a hard-edged message on crime can be interpreted as an attempt to find a noneconomic issue it can use against Democrats .
839 be-s DES MOINES , Iowa - President Barack Obama wo n't be on the ballot in 2016 , but on Monday he showed he 's looking for ways to put his imprint on the race to succeed him.On a visit to Iowa , the state that will have the first say in winnowing the presidential field , Obama drew sharp contrasts between Democratic policies and those of Republicans seeking to reclaim the White House .
840 be-s ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
841 be-s ` As Democratic Party officials see Bernie Sanders 's mounting strength with voters , I think they will begin to better understand that he will not only be a strong nominee who can help Democrats all across the country win elections , but he actually will be the white knight if they need one , ' said Mr. Devine , who was a past adviser to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore .
842 be-s More important , Republicans do not want to be targeted by conservative outside groups like Americans for Prosperity , the political advocacy group funded by the libertarian billionaires Charles and David Koch.Tim Phillips , the president of Americans for Prosperity , has said that his group intends to aggressively attack any Republican candidate in the 2016 primaries who endorses carbon regulations.But some Republican strategists worry that the position on climate change that could help win them their party 's nomination could hurt them in a general election , particularly in a contest with a larger number of young and minority voters .
843 be-s `` There may be cause for optimism , however , in the face of Gary Heavin , a cigar-chomping billionaire and Republican donor who was at Paul 's side much of the week , having arrived with the senator and some of the other doctors on his private jet.Heavin , the Texas-based founder of the Curves health club franchise , has been active in Haitian charity work since a 2010 earthquake left more than 100,000 dead and millions homeless in the nation 's capital , Port-au-Prince .
844 be-s But he appears to be connecting with Republican voters at a rate that even his closest aides did n't predict.Heading into Wednesday night 's second debate of the GOP contest , Carson finds himself alongside Trump atop the field.A New York Times/CBS News poll released Tuesday shows Carson favored by 23 percent of likely Republican primary voters compared to Trump 's 27 percent .
845 be-s His presidency appeared to be quickly slipping into lame-duck territory last year , but began to rebound after Democrats ' defeats in the midterm election and picked up momentum this summer.Summer has previously been Obama 's cruelest season : the hostile health care town halls in 2009 , the debt ceiling crisis in 2011 , the president 's waffling on Syria 's chemical weapons use in 2013 .
846 be-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
847 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
848 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
849 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
850 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
851 be-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
852 be-s The rally will take place - where else - on the Capitol 's lawn.The issue is particularly tense because the question of appropriating money to the organization has become entangled in the debate over the budget , which has to be dealt with before the government runs out of spending authority on ` Sept. 30 .
853 be-s For example , many of them including Mr. Frum advocate a significantly more restrictive immigration policy , arguing that high immigration levels , particularly for low-skilled workers , cut against the economic interests of ordinary Americans.Hmm.There happens to be a Republican candidate for president who wants less immigration but also thinks it 's ` outrageous ' how little tax some rich people pay , and he 's doing pretty well in the polls .
854 be-s For example , many of them including Mr. Frum advocate a significantly more restrictive immigration policy , arguing that high immigration levels , particularly for low-skilled workers , cut against the economic interests of ordinary Americans.Hmm.There happens to be a Republican candidate for president who wants less immigration but also thinks it 's ` outrageous ' how little tax some rich people pay , and he 's doing pretty well in the polls .
855 be-s The opening has also sparked speculation that Vice President Joe Biden could be a late entry into the Democratic contest.But it 's the surveys showing voters have questions about Clinton 's integrity that are the most troubling for her campaign.In a recent Quinnipiac University poll , 61 percent of voters said they did not consider Clinton honest and trustworthy compared to 34 percent who did ascribe those qualities to her .
856 be-s The Ministry 's Canton of Finance was an imposing structure -- but , then , everything about the Steel Ministry tended to be imposing .
857 be-s He might not be a mistwraith , but he 's not skaa either .
858 be-s `` That 's because you had to be delicate , '' Kelsier said with a devious smile .
859 be-s She might be a powerful Allomancer , but she 's inexperienced .
860 be-s And Kelsier says the entire land used to be even more fertile than a nobleman 's garden .
861 be-s `` He 's too clever to be insubordinate , '' Ham said , `` but he 's been making trouble quietly .
862 be-s He 's a powerful Allomancer , but he does n't know everything -- if he did , we 'd be dead right now .
863 be-s `` He might not be a god , but ... he 's something , Kelsier .
864 be-s He claims that he 's doing something to protect the entire world , but that might just be his ego coming through . ''
865 be-s Felt thinks she 's a thief , but there have to be other reasons a group like that would send someone to balls .
866 be-s The men 's voices grew distant ; even running , they would n't be able to keep up with her .
867 be-s This would be a transformative step toward modernizing the nation 's archaic , error-filled approach to registering voters.No state currently has such inclusive registration , although Oregon came closest in March when it passed a law automatically registering eligible citizens with a driver 's license - instantly adding 300,000 voters to the rolls .
868 be-s ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
869 be-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
870 be-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
871 be-s ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
872 be-s What he 's really saying is that nobody who is n't wealthy should be able to run for President because only the superrich can be untainted by political corruption.But most politicians are n't rich , which means they have to raise money from others .
873 be-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
874 be-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
875 be-s During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
876 be-s For example , just read one recent paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.The two physicians in the debate , Ben Carson and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , argued that while science connecting vaccines and autism is lacking , spreading out the childhood vaccination schedule might be advisable.But that 's a position strongly opposed by the medical community - because there is no link between autism and vaccination , spacing vaccines will not reduce the risk of a child developing autism.But because many parents ask for such delayed schedules , doctors often accommodate such demands , putting children at risk of catching diseases before they are vaccinated or potentially failing to complete their recommended vaccines.Failing to vaccinate children has clear health risks .
877 be-s Fears have faded that Greece will be forced to drop out of the eurozone , but the country 's economy is still in a shambles and there is uncertainty about whether a stable government will emerge after national elections scheduled for Sept. 20 .
878 be-s European Central Bank purchases would help raise the market value of those bonds and help restore confidence in the country 's banks.And Greeks who have withdrawn cash from their accounts might begin depositing money again and help the banking system return to normal.But economists and investors hoping for powerful action by the European Central Bank on Thursday may be disappointed .
879 be-s The legislators who sponsored the 2013 law have refused to testify , citing legislative immunity.During closing arguments Friday , Judge Schroeder , who was appointed by President George W. Bush , peppered the plaintiffs ' lawyers with questions about why the repeal of extra voting opportunities that do not exist in many states would be illegal.But he also pressed the state 's lawyers on what motivated legislators to make the sudden changes to a system that seemed to be popular and working well .
880 be-s ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
881 be-s Mr. Perry 's advisers were uncertain what would happen with the super PAC money , but noted that much of it came from a pair of Dallas executives , Kelcy Warren and Darwin Deason , and that they would be consulted .
882 be-saw He thought he saw a figure crouching atop a wall in the distance , but he could n't be certain .
883 be-splattered Our plans may be a bit crazy , but I 'd rather not have them end with you splattered across the cobblestones down there . ''
884 be-starting ` And they will be more important in 2016 , because they are starting to make up a greater portion of the electorate .
885 be-suppose I suppose I could use one of them , but I could n't go to any major balls or parties -- it would be rather embarrassing if I met someone who knew me by a different alias . ''
886 be-suppose A crude term , I suppose -- but they tend to be rather crude people .
887 be-suppose I suppose you could follow them if you wish , but you would be fairly obvious .
888 be-trained Bronze and copper may not be as flashy as other metals , but they can be very powerful in the hands of someone properly trained .
889 be-traveling That would be even worse than traveling back and forth between Luthadel and Fellise .
890 be-use Similarly , Ted Cruz and Scott Walker responded to the murder of a sheriff 's deputy in Texas with statements blaming Mr. Obama for increased anti-police language , which they suggested endangers public safety and law enforcement.Some G.O.P. strategists fear that these tactics could be damaging in the general election , but the party 's turn toward a hard-edged message on crime can be interpreted as an attempt to find a noneconomic issue it can use against Democrats .
891 be-use His presidency appeared to be quickly slipping into lame-duck territory last year , but began to rebound after Democrats ' defeats in the midterm election and picked up momentum this summer.Summer has previously been Obama 's cruelest season : the hostile health care town halls in 2009 , the debt ceiling crisis in 2011 , the president 's waffling on Syria 's chemical weapons use in 2013 .
892 be-use I suppose I could use one of them , but I could n't go to any major balls or parties -- it would be rather embarrassing if I met someone who knew me by a different alias . ''
893 be-use We can use all of the powers , but we ca n't be everywhere .
894 be-use Keep the earring -- it 's small , so you wo n't be able to do much with it , but you could use it as a weapon in an emergency . ''
895 be-warrant That would be good for eurozone exporters , because their products would be cheaper for customers paying in other currencies.Still , at a news conference on Thursday , Mr. Draghi is almost certain to at least repeat earlier statements that the central bank is ready to deploy further stimulus if circumstances warrant.As of Aug. 28 , the central bank had spent 290 billion newly created euros , or about $ 327 billion , buying eurozone government bonds on open markets .
896 be-was Throughout the 2008 campaign cycle , Obama the candidate was fond of declaring on the stump that Al Qaeda grew stronger because the Iraq war had caused the Bush administration to '' take our eye off the ball '' instead of '' refocusing our attention on the war that can be won in Afghanistan . ''
897 be-was The reason we were able to unify the world community around the most effective sanctions regime we 've ever set up , a sanction regime that crippled the Iranian economy and ultimately brought them to the table , was because the world agreed with us , that it would be a great danger to the region , to our allies , to the world , if Iran possessed a nuclear weapon .
898 be-was But I think that if I were succeeded by a Republican president - and I 'll be doing everything that I can to prevent that from happening - but if I were , that Republican president would be in a much stronger position than I was when I came into office , in terms of constraining Iran 's nuclear program .
899 be-was ` As Democratic Party officials see Bernie Sanders 's mounting strength with voters , I think they will begin to better understand that he will not only be a strong nominee who can help Democrats all across the country win elections , but he actually will be the white knight if they need one , ' said Mr. Devine , who was a past adviser to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore .
900 be-was Feeding the perception of her strength was the notion that Democrats had an advantage in presidential elections , given their sway among growing parts of the electorate , like young and nonwhite voters , and their apparent Electoral College advantage.But Mrs. Clinton will not be a Democratic Eisenhower , a popular , senior statesperson who cruises to an easy victory .
901 be-was Mr. Olson , who farms 2,000 acres of corn and soybeans , said in an interview that Deez Nuts was his son Brady , who begins his sophomore year in high school next week.Like any surging candidate , Deez Nuts has been besieged with requests from the national news media since becoming an Internet meme , but has said he would be interviewed only by email .
902 be-was The first of those published was the 2013 intelligence court order to a Verizon subsidiary requiring it to turn over all its customers ' calling records.Although the Obama administration declassified the existence of the bulk phone records program , it has declined to confirm which other phone companies participated in it and which groups it could be used to search for.The letter does not make clear how often the N.S.A. has used the program to search for Iran or Iranian-linked terrorist organizations .
903 be-was `` There may be cause for optimism , however , in the face of Gary Heavin , a cigar-chomping billionaire and Republican donor who was at Paul 's side much of the week , having arrived with the senator and some of the other doctors on his private jet.Heavin , the Texas-based founder of the Curves health club franchise , has been active in Haitian charity work since a 2010 earthquake left more than 100,000 dead and millions homeless in the nation 's capital , Port-au-Prince .
904 be-was He was a friend to gun owners : Florida 's ` Stand Your Ground ' law was enacted on his watch.In the case of Terri Schiavo , a Florida woman deemed by many physicians to be in a persistent vegetative state , he intervened on the side of her parents - but against the wishes of her husband , who was her legal guardian - to prevent the removal of a feeding tube .
905 be-was ONAWA , Iowa - Scott Walker 's suggestion that building a wall between Canada and the U.S. might be a `` legitimate '' idea prompted swift derision from fellow Republicans on Monday and an attempt by his campaign to clarify what he meant.It was the latest misstep for a 2016 presidential candidate who got off to a strong start but has fallen back into the pack after a series of fumbles and a lackluster performance in the first GOP debate.The Wisconsin governor was asked on NBC 's `` Meet the Press '' on Sunday whether he thought a wall should be built along the more than 5,000 miles of border with Canada .
906 be-was ONAWA , Iowa - Scott Walker 's suggestion that building a wall between Canada and the U.S. might be a `` legitimate '' idea prompted swift derision from fellow Republicans on Monday and an attempt by his campaign to clarify what he meant.It was the latest misstep for a 2016 presidential candidate who got off to a strong start but has fallen back into the pack after a series of fumbles and a lackluster performance in the first GOP debate.The Wisconsin governor was asked on NBC 's `` Meet the Press '' on Sunday whether he thought a wall should be built along the more than 5,000 miles of border with Canada .
907 be-was `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
908 be-was `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
909 be-was `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
910 be-was `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
911 be-was The dollar amount is expected to be disclosed soon.But some potential donors have said in recent weeks that Mr. Walker 's busy schedule was not an issue for them ; rather , they were taking a wait-and-see approach on Mr. Walker.Advisers to Mr. Walker emphasized that policy briefings were not the only important way that he had educated himself on the issues .
912 be-was The Ministry 's Canton of Finance was an imposing structure -- but , then , everything about the Steel Ministry tended to be imposing .
913 be-was She was n't afraid of heights in particular , but who would n't be apprehensive , standing atop the wall , looking down at her doom ?
914 be-was He was even taller than Kelsier -- tall enough to be a bit abnormal -- and his arms were unusually long .
915 be-was Somehow she knew each of those capstones was intricately carved , despite the fact that they were too far away to be seen from below .
916 be-was Kredik Shaw had taught her that she was n't invincible -- but Kelsier 's survival with barely a scratch proved that it was possible to be much better than she was .
917 be-was It was all subtle , of course , but it would be enough to give her away while sneaking .
918 be-was Some of the boxes would be filled with weapons -- swords , war staves , bows -- but the bulk of the material was sacked foodstuffs .
919 be-was Their trail would probably still be visible , but there was little he could do about that -- the movements of so many men would be nearly impossible to mask .
920 be-was It was made of soft lace , but there did n't seem to be anything unusual about it .
921 be-was He was n't going to stay at the caves for long , so sending a messenger back would have been a bit silly -- as an Allomancer , he might even be able to get back before a man on horseback .
922 be-was He could n't possibly be as bad as the Lord Ruler , but ... she was reading more and more of the logbook .
923 be-was `` If it were , Inquisitors would be able to sense Allomancy even when there was a Smoker nearby .
924 be-was House Venture might be safe , but Elend himself was a little bit ... oblivious sometimes .
925 be-was Noblemen were n't supposed to be afraid of such things , but that did n't change the fact that the deep , caliginous mist was just plain creepy .
926 be-was That has proved to be a delusion.And as Mark Moyar of the Foreign Policy Research Institute , a Philadelphia-based think tank , wrote earlier this month in The Wall Street Journal : `` Though President Obama denounced sequestration , his actions suggest that at the very least he was comfortable with its gutting of the defense budget .
927 be-was ` Another struggling candidate , former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida , who has been Mr. Trump 's chief target , was initially slow to take him on , but then ripped into him for suggesting that Mr. Bush would be a puppet of his major donors .
928 be-was If Mrs. Clinton 's pitch to voters is that she can make the system more effective , Mr. Sanders is arguing that Mr. Obama was naïve to even bother with a system that needs to be fundamentally changed.It is not a new message for Mr. Sanders , who came up in radical left politics , but the response is something unfamiliar .
929 be-was The legislators who sponsored the 2013 law have refused to testify , citing legislative immunity.During closing arguments Friday , Judge Schroeder , who was appointed by President George W. Bush , peppered the plaintiffs ' lawyers with questions about why the repeal of extra voting opportunities that do not exist in many states would be illegal.But he also pressed the state 's lawyers on what motivated legislators to make the sudden changes to a system that seemed to be popular and working well .
930 be-was He had already stopped paying staff and was uncertain whether he would even have the money to pay the state filing fees required in the coming months to be on the ballot next year , they said .
931 be-was Throughout the 2008 campaign cycle , Obama the candidate was fond of declaring on the stump that Al Qaeda grew stronger because the Iraq war had caused the Bush administration to '' take our eye off the ball '' instead of '' refocusing our attention on the war that can be won in Afghanistan . ''
932 be-was The reason we were able to unify the world community around the most effective sanctions regime we 've ever set up , a sanction regime that crippled the Iranian economy and ultimately brought them to the table , was because the world agreed with us , that it would be a great danger to the region , to our allies , to the world , if Iran possessed a nuclear weapon .
933 be-was But I think that if I were succeeded by a Republican president - and I 'll be doing everything that I can to prevent that from happening - but if I were , that Republican president would be in a much stronger position than I was when I came into office , in terms of constraining Iran 's nuclear program .
934 be-was ` As Democratic Party officials see Bernie Sanders 's mounting strength with voters , I think they will begin to better understand that he will not only be a strong nominee who can help Democrats all across the country win elections , but he actually will be the white knight if they need one , ' said Mr. Devine , who was a past adviser to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore .
935 be-was Feeding the perception of her strength was the notion that Democrats had an advantage in presidential elections , given their sway among growing parts of the electorate , like young and nonwhite voters , and their apparent Electoral College advantage.But Mrs. Clinton will not be a Democratic Eisenhower , a popular , senior statesperson who cruises to an easy victory .
936 be-was Mr. Olson , who farms 2,000 acres of corn and soybeans , said in an interview that Deez Nuts was his son Brady , who begins his sophomore year in high school next week.Like any surging candidate , Deez Nuts has been besieged with requests from the national news media since becoming an Internet meme , but has said he would be interviewed only by email .
937 be-was The first of those published was the 2013 intelligence court order to a Verizon subsidiary requiring it to turn over all its customers ' calling records.Although the Obama administration declassified the existence of the bulk phone records program , it has declined to confirm which other phone companies participated in it and which groups it could be used to search for.The letter does not make clear how often the N.S.A. has used the program to search for Iran or Iranian-linked terrorist organizations .
938 be-was `` There may be cause for optimism , however , in the face of Gary Heavin , a cigar-chomping billionaire and Republican donor who was at Paul 's side much of the week , having arrived with the senator and some of the other doctors on his private jet.Heavin , the Texas-based founder of the Curves health club franchise , has been active in Haitian charity work since a 2010 earthquake left more than 100,000 dead and millions homeless in the nation 's capital , Port-au-Prince .
939 be-was He was a friend to gun owners : Florida 's ` Stand Your Ground ' law was enacted on his watch.In the case of Terri Schiavo , a Florida woman deemed by many physicians to be in a persistent vegetative state , he intervened on the side of her parents - but against the wishes of her husband , who was her legal guardian - to prevent the removal of a feeding tube .
940 be-was ONAWA , Iowa - Scott Walker 's suggestion that building a wall between Canada and the U.S. might be a `` legitimate '' idea prompted swift derision from fellow Republicans on Monday and an attempt by his campaign to clarify what he meant.It was the latest misstep for a 2016 presidential candidate who got off to a strong start but has fallen back into the pack after a series of fumbles and a lackluster performance in the first GOP debate.The Wisconsin governor was asked on NBC 's `` Meet the Press '' on Sunday whether he thought a wall should be built along the more than 5,000 miles of border with Canada .
941 be-was ONAWA , Iowa - Scott Walker 's suggestion that building a wall between Canada and the U.S. might be a `` legitimate '' idea prompted swift derision from fellow Republicans on Monday and an attempt by his campaign to clarify what he meant.It was the latest misstep for a 2016 presidential candidate who got off to a strong start but has fallen back into the pack after a series of fumbles and a lackluster performance in the first GOP debate.The Wisconsin governor was asked on NBC 's `` Meet the Press '' on Sunday whether he thought a wall should be built along the more than 5,000 miles of border with Canada .
942 be-was `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
943 be-was `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
944 be-was `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
945 be-was `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
946 be-was The dollar amount is expected to be disclosed soon.But some potential donors have said in recent weeks that Mr. Walker 's busy schedule was not an issue for them ; rather , they were taking a wait-and-see approach on Mr. Walker.Advisers to Mr. Walker emphasized that policy briefings were not the only important way that he had educated himself on the issues .
947 be-was The Ministry 's Canton of Finance was an imposing structure -- but , then , everything about the Steel Ministry tended to be imposing .
948 be-was She was n't afraid of heights in particular , but who would n't be apprehensive , standing atop the wall , looking down at her doom ?
949 be-was He was even taller than Kelsier -- tall enough to be a bit abnormal -- and his arms were unusually long .
950 be-was Somehow she knew each of those capstones was intricately carved , despite the fact that they were too far away to be seen from below .
951 be-was Kredik Shaw had taught her that she was n't invincible -- but Kelsier 's survival with barely a scratch proved that it was possible to be much better than she was .
952 be-was It was all subtle , of course , but it would be enough to give her away while sneaking .
953 be-was Some of the boxes would be filled with weapons -- swords , war staves , bows -- but the bulk of the material was sacked foodstuffs .
954 be-was Their trail would probably still be visible , but there was little he could do about that -- the movements of so many men would be nearly impossible to mask .
955 be-was It was made of soft lace , but there did n't seem to be anything unusual about it .
956 be-was He was n't going to stay at the caves for long , so sending a messenger back would have been a bit silly -- as an Allomancer , he might even be able to get back before a man on horseback .
957 be-was He could n't possibly be as bad as the Lord Ruler , but ... she was reading more and more of the logbook .
958 be-was `` If it were , Inquisitors would be able to sense Allomancy even when there was a Smoker nearby .
959 be-was House Venture might be safe , but Elend himself was a little bit ... oblivious sometimes .
960 be-was Noblemen were n't supposed to be afraid of such things , but that did n't change the fact that the deep , caliginous mist was just plain creepy .
961 be-was That has proved to be a delusion.And as Mark Moyar of the Foreign Policy Research Institute , a Philadelphia-based think tank , wrote earlier this month in The Wall Street Journal : `` Though President Obama denounced sequestration , his actions suggest that at the very least he was comfortable with its gutting of the defense budget .
962 be-was ` Another struggling candidate , former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida , who has been Mr. Trump 's chief target , was initially slow to take him on , but then ripped into him for suggesting that Mr. Bush would be a puppet of his major donors .
963 be-was If Mrs. Clinton 's pitch to voters is that she can make the system more effective , Mr. Sanders is arguing that Mr. Obama was naïve to even bother with a system that needs to be fundamentally changed.It is not a new message for Mr. Sanders , who came up in radical left politics , but the response is something unfamiliar .
964 be-was The legislators who sponsored the 2013 law have refused to testify , citing legislative immunity.During closing arguments Friday , Judge Schroeder , who was appointed by President George W. Bush , peppered the plaintiffs ' lawyers with questions about why the repeal of extra voting opportunities that do not exist in many states would be illegal.But he also pressed the state 's lawyers on what motivated legislators to make the sudden changes to a system that seemed to be popular and working well .
965 be-was He had already stopped paying staff and was uncertain whether he would even have the money to pay the state filing fees required in the coming months to be on the ballot next year , they said .
966 be-were KABUL , Afghanistan - After suffering setbacks and heavy casualties at the hands of the Taliban in 2014 , Afghan security forces came into this year with what Afghan and Western officials acknowledge were relatively modest goals : hang on till the end of the fighting season without major collapses.But with months of heavy fighting still ahead , 2015 is already shaping up to be worse for the Afghan Army and the national police , even as President Obama is set to begin deliberating this year on whether to follow through with a complete withdrawal of the United States military assistance mission here in 2016 .
967 be-were The reason we were able to unify the world community around the most effective sanctions regime we 've ever set up , a sanction regime that crippled the Iranian economy and ultimately brought them to the table , was because the world agreed with us , that it would be a great danger to the region , to our allies , to the world , if Iran possessed a nuclear weapon .
968 be-were But I think that if I were succeeded by a Republican president - and I 'll be doing everything that I can to prevent that from happening - but if I were , that Republican president would be in a much stronger position than I was when I came into office , in terms of constraining Iran 's nuclear program .
969 be-were But I think that if I were succeeded by a Republican president - and I 'll be doing everything that I can to prevent that from happening - but if I were , that Republican president would be in a much stronger position than I was when I came into office , in terms of constraining Iran 's nuclear program .
970 be-were ` Your wallet is the best ballot , ' said Barrett Silver , who signed the parent petition urging the prom to be relocated.Officials at Horace Greeley said that they were open to moving the prom , which takes place next spring , but that the decision would ultimately be left to the students , who finance and organize the event.The business losses from moving the 300-person prom is unlikely to sting Mr. Trump , who has absorbed millions of dollars in severed corporate ventures since he started his presidential campaign in June .
971 be-were The dollar amount is expected to be disclosed soon.But some potential donors have said in recent weeks that Mr. Walker 's busy schedule was not an issue for them ; rather , they were taking a wait-and-see approach on Mr. Walker.Advisers to Mr. Walker emphasized that policy briefings were not the only important way that he had educated himself on the issues .
972 be-were The dollar amount is expected to be disclosed soon.But some potential donors have said in recent weeks that Mr. Walker 's busy schedule was not an issue for them ; rather , they were taking a wait-and-see approach on Mr. Walker.Advisers to Mr. Walker emphasized that policy briefings were not the only important way that he had educated himself on the issues .
973 be-were It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
974 be-were It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
975 be-were The skaa might be subservient , but they were incurable gossips .
976 be-were We 're going to give you an army of well-equipped , well-fed men -- and I 'll be damned if I 'm going to let you get them slaughtered because they were never taught which end of the sword to hold . ''
977 be-were `` If you were to Push on something else , or move too much to one side , though ... well , you 'd lose your anchor below , and would n't be pushing directly up anymore .
978 be-were We were overconfident , but we had reason to be .
979 be-were Some noble houses were falling , but there did n't seem to be the air of general chaos that Kelsier had wanted .
980 be-were The building did n't smell musty enough to be abandoned , but the bottom few floors were obviously unused .
981 be-were He says his mother , former first lady Barbara Bush , would not be happy to hear him admit it on television.Bush notes that he opposed a medical marijuana ballot measure in Florida because there were too many `` loopholes '' in the bill .
982 be-were Mr. Perry 's advisers were uncertain what would happen with the super PAC money , but noted that much of it came from a pair of Dallas executives , Kelcy Warren and Darwin Deason , and that they would be consulted .
983 be-wooing He is a former white-shoe corporate lawyer and also a longtime critic of aggressive policing , practiced at wooing rank-and-file Democrats and city elites at the same time.A vocal supporter of Israel , Mr. Jeffries has attracted significant funding from national Jewish donors over the years , though his support for the Iran deal could be an obstacle in the future .
984 bearing-is It is difficult , but for those who can do it well ... '' The door opened , and the sullen skaa man returned , bearing an entire bottle of wine .
985 bearing-made She was old enough that she should have been either bearing children or working in a mill , but her size often made her look younger in profile .
986 bears-is `` Master Kelsier is reticent about the Pits , but I sense that the scars he bears from that horrid place go much deeper than the ones you see on his arms .
987 beat-considered Camon threatened her and he beat her -- but he considered her a good-luck charm .
988 beat-scamming If he was caught ... Well , scamming noblemen and obligators was a very dangerous profession -- but it certainly beat working in the forges or the textile mills .
989 beat-started Breeze started toward the table first , but Ham and Dockson beat him to it .
990 beaten-blinked I once saw a man beaten because his master claimed that he had ` blinked inappropriately .
991 beaten-stay They know that the skaa are beaten , but they want to make sure things stay that way . ''
992 became-capture ` Al Qaeda tried to be a movement and capture a more global imagination , and it largely failed ; regional groups joined the A.Q. banner , but it never truly became a wholly decentralized movement , ' said Michael E. Leiter , a former director of the National Counterterrorism Center .
993 become-highlight For Mr. Bush , education policy has been a signature issue over the last decade , and the forum gives him a chance to highlight those credentials.But within the Republican contest , education policy has become a fraught topic , particularly around the Common Core education standards .
994 becomes-losing I think they get a sense that the Assad regime is losing a grip over greater and greater swaths of territory inside of Syria to Sunni jihadist militias and that the prospects for a Sunni jihadist takeover or rout of the Syrian regime is not imminent but becomes a greater and greater threat by the day .
995 becoming-opposing They also have described him as becoming increasingly aggressive in the ` courtroom , in some cases even threatening defense lawyers with ` criminal contempt for filing opposing motions .
996 becoming-realize You may not realize it , but the city is becoming dangerous .
997 becoming-stoned Since then , it has become one of the hottest political and social issues in this swing state , becoming a new source of jobs and millions in tax dollars , but bringing along with it worries about stoned drivers and teenagers ' abusing the drug .
998 been-benefited Kelsier had been right : Though polite groups met at balls , the nobility were more than willing to stab each other square in the chest if it benefited them .
999 been-changed Our attack on the palace might have been near-deadly for me , but it has changed Kelsier for the better .
1000 been-detest ` Mr. Bush has been a backer of Common Core , but as many Republicans detest it as government imposition on schools he has taken an increasingly flexible approach .
1001 been-devastating There has n't been an all-out war among the Great Houses for over a century , but the last one was devastating .
1002 been-did Camon had been good at imitating noblemen because of his self-confidence , and that was one attribute Vin knew she did n't have .
1003 been-did You might have been their motivation , but you did n't make the choice for them .
1004 been-did Kelsier still had n't been able to discover which house was behind the murders , but the Luthadel nobility did n't seem to care who the culprit was .
1005 been-did It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
1006 been-did It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
1007 been-had We saw the same thing with another Clinton , William Jefferson , who had even worse favorable ratings than Mrs. Clinton before quickly turning around his image once the 1992 general election began.It 's useful to imagine a counterfactual : What if the economy had been stronger , and George H.W. Bush had had a 60 percent approval rating , on Election Day in 1992 ?
1008 been-had Mr. Clinton would n't have had a chance against those numbers , of course , but Mr. Bush would n't have been running just on his record .
1009 been-had Kabila , who has been in power since 2001 , has remained quiet about his future in politics , but Congo has never had a peaceful transfer of power in its 55 years of independence.The new U.S. special envoy to the Great Lakes , Thomas Perriello , met with Kabila on Wednesday before holding his first press conference there.The election process is as important as election day and `` many partners must be involved in ensuring a truly free and transparent elections cycle here , '' he said.Tensions have been high between the president and opposition parties , who fear election delays could keep Kabila in office beyond constitutional limits.Kabila called for a dialogue in June but opposition parties refused to participate without international mediation .
1010 been-had ` His lack of knowledge in the foreign policy area has been a problem because , well , you want your commander in chief to be confident on those issues , ' said Bruce Perlo , chairman of the Grafton County Republican Committee in New Hampshire.Recognizing the problem , Mr. Walker has joined in hourslong meetings in Washington ; Madison , Wis. ; and elsewhere for tutorials on the Islamic State , Iran , Russia and military and geopolitical confrontations , as well as human rights abuses , border security and immigration policy , and other issues , advisers said.He has relied on Republicans such as former Senator Jim Talent of Missouri , who leads Mr. Walker 's national security advisory council , and Andrew Bremberg , his policy director , who previously was a top aide to the Senate majority leader , Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.In recent months , Mr. Walker has also met or spoken with Prime Ministers Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel as part of a trip to Israel , David Cameron of Britain and Stephen Harper of Canada ; Presidents Xi Jinping of China and Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia ; retired military leaders such as former Gen. David H. Petraeus and former Gen. Jack Keane ; and a number of American and foreign ambassadors.Aides to Mr. Walker provided this list in response to questions about his briefings ; they declined a request to interview Mr. Walker.General Keane , in an email , said he had provided an analysis of global security challenges facing the United States , which he has done for several other candidates from both parties .
1011 been-had She had n't been willing to leave ; however , she also had n't felt the need to become familiar with the other crewmembers .
1012 been-had Had Ulef even really been her friend ?
1013 been-had Mare had been a Tineye , but he and Dockson ... they had just been regular men .
1014 been-had Mare had been a Tineye , but he and Dockson ... they had just been regular men .
1015 been-had It had been hard work -- most noblemen used skaa instead of horses to pull the boats along the towpath -- but there had been a certain freedom to knowing that she was traveling at all , for most skaa , even skaa thieves , never left their plantation or town .
1016 been-had It had been hard work -- most noblemen used skaa instead of horses to pull the boats along the towpath -- but there had been a certain freedom to knowing that she was traveling at all , for most skaa , even skaa thieves , never left their plantation or town .
1017 been-had Camon had been skilled at impersonating noblemen , but his self-importance had always struck Vin as a bit juvenile .
1018 been-had He had betrayed her in the end , but for a time he had almost been a friend .
1019 been-had Sazed 's inquiries had been respectful , of course , but they had also been forceful .
1020 been-had Sazed 's inquiries had been respectful , of course , but they had also been forceful .
1021 been-had She scanned the table , trying to notice if anything had been disturbed , but Elend had left the books in such a state of disarray that it was hard to tell .
1022 been-had It had been there before -- she recognized it because it was so much thinner than the others -- so the Terrisman had n't left it behind .
1023 been-had It was amazing that one so old had even been able to keep up .
1024 been-had The building Marsh had chosen was even more run-down than the one Vin and Kelsier had been sitting in .
1025 been-had Ash and soot had been too much a part of her life , and she did n't think she 'd even had a concept of what a pristine white looked like .
1026 been-had Grabbing a carriage and sneaking out of the palace grounds had been an extreme move , perhaps , but it had been ridiculously easy .
1027 been-had Grabbing a carriage and sneaking out of the palace grounds had been an extreme move , perhaps , but it had been ridiculously easy .
1028 been-had Perhaps it had been foolhardy to sneak away from the palace before hearing the details of what had happened , but Elend had n't exactly been thinking carefully at the time .
1029 been-had Perhaps it had been foolhardy to sneak away from the palace before hearing the details of what had happened , but Elend had n't exactly been thinking carefully at the time .
1030 been-had Perhaps it had been foolhardy to sneak away from the palace before hearing the details of what had happened , but Elend had n't exactly been thinking carefully at the time .
1031 been-had Vin had been in skaa tenements before , but never before had they seemed so ... depressing .
1032 been-had Kelsier had led her along , telling her to trust and to love , but Reen had always been the truthful one .
1033 been-had He could n't see anymore , not as he once had , but he had been given something better .
1034 been-had It had been a clever idea , far more clever than Vin 's foolish attempt with the Eleventh Metal -- however , it had proven equally faulty .
1035 been-had He had been far from a perfect brother , but he had loved her nonetheless .
1036 been-had Eighty percent of those arrested are younger than 30 , and 40 percent are under 21 , he said.In early July , Mr. Comey said the authorities had thwarted multiple attacks being plotted for July 4 by the Islamic State and its sympathizers in the United States , though he did not say what the plots entailed or how many people had been arrested .
1037 been-had It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
1038 been-had It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
1039 been-had After returning to the governorship , Mr. Perry admitted he had been ill-prepared for the demands of a national campaign and noted that , because of back surgery shortly before he entered the race , he had been in physical pain for much of that campaign .
1040 been-had After returning to the governorship , Mr. Perry admitted he had been ill-prepared for the demands of a national campaign and noted that , because of back surgery shortly before he entered the race , he had been in physical pain for much of that campaign .
1041 been-had We saw the same thing with another Clinton , William Jefferson , who had even worse favorable ratings than Mrs. Clinton before quickly turning around his image once the 1992 general election began.It 's useful to imagine a counterfactual : What if the economy had been stronger , and George H.W. Bush had had a 60 percent approval rating , on Election Day in 1992 ?
1042 been-had Mr. Clinton would n't have had a chance against those numbers , of course , but Mr. Bush would n't have been running just on his record .
1043 been-had Kabila , who has been in power since 2001 , has remained quiet about his future in politics , but Congo has never had a peaceful transfer of power in its 55 years of independence.The new U.S. special envoy to the Great Lakes , Thomas Perriello , met with Kabila on Wednesday before holding his first press conference there.The election process is as important as election day and `` many partners must be involved in ensuring a truly free and transparent elections cycle here , '' he said.Tensions have been high between the president and opposition parties , who fear election delays could keep Kabila in office beyond constitutional limits.Kabila called for a dialogue in June but opposition parties refused to participate without international mediation .
1044 been-had ` His lack of knowledge in the foreign policy area has been a problem because , well , you want your commander in chief to be confident on those issues , ' said Bruce Perlo , chairman of the Grafton County Republican Committee in New Hampshire.Recognizing the problem , Mr. Walker has joined in hourslong meetings in Washington ; Madison , Wis. ; and elsewhere for tutorials on the Islamic State , Iran , Russia and military and geopolitical confrontations , as well as human rights abuses , border security and immigration policy , and other issues , advisers said.He has relied on Republicans such as former Senator Jim Talent of Missouri , who leads Mr. Walker 's national security advisory council , and Andrew Bremberg , his policy director , who previously was a top aide to the Senate majority leader , Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.In recent months , Mr. Walker has also met or spoken with Prime Ministers Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel as part of a trip to Israel , David Cameron of Britain and Stephen Harper of Canada ; Presidents Xi Jinping of China and Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia ; retired military leaders such as former Gen. David H. Petraeus and former Gen. Jack Keane ; and a number of American and foreign ambassadors.Aides to Mr. Walker provided this list in response to questions about his briefings ; they declined a request to interview Mr. Walker.General Keane , in an email , said he had provided an analysis of global security challenges facing the United States , which he has done for several other candidates from both parties .
1045 been-had She had n't been willing to leave ; however , she also had n't felt the need to become familiar with the other crewmembers .
1046 been-had Had Ulef even really been her friend ?
1047 been-had Mare had been a Tineye , but he and Dockson ... they had just been regular men .
1048 been-had Mare had been a Tineye , but he and Dockson ... they had just been regular men .
1049 been-had It had been hard work -- most noblemen used skaa instead of horses to pull the boats along the towpath -- but there had been a certain freedom to knowing that she was traveling at all , for most skaa , even skaa thieves , never left their plantation or town .
1050 been-had It had been hard work -- most noblemen used skaa instead of horses to pull the boats along the towpath -- but there had been a certain freedom to knowing that she was traveling at all , for most skaa , even skaa thieves , never left their plantation or town .
1051 been-had Camon had been skilled at impersonating noblemen , but his self-importance had always struck Vin as a bit juvenile .
1052 been-had He had betrayed her in the end , but for a time he had almost been a friend .
1053 been-had Sazed 's inquiries had been respectful , of course , but they had also been forceful .
1054 been-had Sazed 's inquiries had been respectful , of course , but they had also been forceful .
1055 been-had She scanned the table , trying to notice if anything had been disturbed , but Elend had left the books in such a state of disarray that it was hard to tell .
1056 been-had It had been there before -- she recognized it because it was so much thinner than the others -- so the Terrisman had n't left it behind .
1057 been-had It was amazing that one so old had even been able to keep up .
1058 been-had The building Marsh had chosen was even more run-down than the one Vin and Kelsier had been sitting in .
1059 been-had Ash and soot had been too much a part of her life , and she did n't think she 'd even had a concept of what a pristine white looked like .
1060 been-had Grabbing a carriage and sneaking out of the palace grounds had been an extreme move , perhaps , but it had been ridiculously easy .
1061 been-had Grabbing a carriage and sneaking out of the palace grounds had been an extreme move , perhaps , but it had been ridiculously easy .
1062 been-had Perhaps it had been foolhardy to sneak away from the palace before hearing the details of what had happened , but Elend had n't exactly been thinking carefully at the time .
1063 been-had Perhaps it had been foolhardy to sneak away from the palace before hearing the details of what had happened , but Elend had n't exactly been thinking carefully at the time .
1064 been-had Perhaps it had been foolhardy to sneak away from the palace before hearing the details of what had happened , but Elend had n't exactly been thinking carefully at the time .
1065 been-had Vin had been in skaa tenements before , but never before had they seemed so ... depressing .
1066 been-had Kelsier had led her along , telling her to trust and to love , but Reen had always been the truthful one .
1067 been-had He could n't see anymore , not as he once had , but he had been given something better .
1068 been-had It had been a clever idea , far more clever than Vin 's foolish attempt with the Eleventh Metal -- however , it had proven equally faulty .
1069 been-had He had been far from a perfect brother , but he had loved her nonetheless .
1070 been-had Eighty percent of those arrested are younger than 30 , and 40 percent are under 21 , he said.In early July , Mr. Comey said the authorities had thwarted multiple attacks being plotted for July 4 by the Islamic State and its sympathizers in the United States , though he did not say what the plots entailed or how many people had been arrested .
1071 been-had It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
1072 been-had It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
1073 been-had After returning to the governorship , Mr. Perry admitted he had been ill-prepared for the demands of a national campaign and noted that , because of back surgery shortly before he entered the race , he had been in physical pain for much of that campaign .
1074 been-had After returning to the governorship , Mr. Perry admitted he had been ill-prepared for the demands of a national campaign and noted that , because of back surgery shortly before he entered the race , he had been in physical pain for much of that campaign .
1075 been-had We saw the same thing with another Clinton , William Jefferson , who had even worse favorable ratings than Mrs. Clinton before quickly turning around his image once the 1992 general election began.It 's useful to imagine a counterfactual : What if the economy had been stronger , and George H.W. Bush had had a 60 percent approval rating , on Election Day in 1992 ?
1076 been-had Mr. Clinton would n't have had a chance against those numbers , of course , but Mr. Bush would n't have been running just on his record .
1077 been-had Kabila , who has been in power since 2001 , has remained quiet about his future in politics , but Congo has never had a peaceful transfer of power in its 55 years of independence.The new U.S. special envoy to the Great Lakes , Thomas Perriello , met with Kabila on Wednesday before holding his first press conference there.The election process is as important as election day and `` many partners must be involved in ensuring a truly free and transparent elections cycle here , '' he said.Tensions have been high between the president and opposition parties , who fear election delays could keep Kabila in office beyond constitutional limits.Kabila called for a dialogue in June but opposition parties refused to participate without international mediation .
1078 been-had ` His lack of knowledge in the foreign policy area has been a problem because , well , you want your commander in chief to be confident on those issues , ' said Bruce Perlo , chairman of the Grafton County Republican Committee in New Hampshire.Recognizing the problem , Mr. Walker has joined in hourslong meetings in Washington ; Madison , Wis. ; and elsewhere for tutorials on the Islamic State , Iran , Russia and military and geopolitical confrontations , as well as human rights abuses , border security and immigration policy , and other issues , advisers said.He has relied on Republicans such as former Senator Jim Talent of Missouri , who leads Mr. Walker 's national security advisory council , and Andrew Bremberg , his policy director , who previously was a top aide to the Senate majority leader , Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.In recent months , Mr. Walker has also met or spoken with Prime Ministers Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel as part of a trip to Israel , David Cameron of Britain and Stephen Harper of Canada ; Presidents Xi Jinping of China and Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia ; retired military leaders such as former Gen. David H. Petraeus and former Gen. Jack Keane ; and a number of American and foreign ambassadors.Aides to Mr. Walker provided this list in response to questions about his briefings ; they declined a request to interview Mr. Walker.General Keane , in an email , said he had provided an analysis of global security challenges facing the United States , which he has done for several other candidates from both parties .
1079 been-had She had n't been willing to leave ; however , she also had n't felt the need to become familiar with the other crewmembers .
1080 been-had Had Ulef even really been her friend ?
1081 been-had Mare had been a Tineye , but he and Dockson ... they had just been regular men .
1082 been-had Mare had been a Tineye , but he and Dockson ... they had just been regular men .
1083 been-had It had been hard work -- most noblemen used skaa instead of horses to pull the boats along the towpath -- but there had been a certain freedom to knowing that she was traveling at all , for most skaa , even skaa thieves , never left their plantation or town .
1084 been-had It had been hard work -- most noblemen used skaa instead of horses to pull the boats along the towpath -- but there had been a certain freedom to knowing that she was traveling at all , for most skaa , even skaa thieves , never left their plantation or town .
1085 been-had Camon had been skilled at impersonating noblemen , but his self-importance had always struck Vin as a bit juvenile .
1086 been-had He had betrayed her in the end , but for a time he had almost been a friend .
1087 been-had Sazed 's inquiries had been respectful , of course , but they had also been forceful .
1088 been-had Sazed 's inquiries had been respectful , of course , but they had also been forceful .
1089 been-had She scanned the table , trying to notice if anything had been disturbed , but Elend had left the books in such a state of disarray that it was hard to tell .
1090 been-had It had been there before -- she recognized it because it was so much thinner than the others -- so the Terrisman had n't left it behind .
1091 been-had It was amazing that one so old had even been able to keep up .
1092 been-had The building Marsh had chosen was even more run-down than the one Vin and Kelsier had been sitting in .
1093 been-had Ash and soot had been too much a part of her life , and she did n't think she 'd even had a concept of what a pristine white looked like .
1094 been-had Grabbing a carriage and sneaking out of the palace grounds had been an extreme move , perhaps , but it had been ridiculously easy .
1095 been-had Grabbing a carriage and sneaking out of the palace grounds had been an extreme move , perhaps , but it had been ridiculously easy .
1096 been-had Perhaps it had been foolhardy to sneak away from the palace before hearing the details of what had happened , but Elend had n't exactly been thinking carefully at the time .
1097 been-had Perhaps it had been foolhardy to sneak away from the palace before hearing the details of what had happened , but Elend had n't exactly been thinking carefully at the time .
1098 been-had Perhaps it had been foolhardy to sneak away from the palace before hearing the details of what had happened , but Elend had n't exactly been thinking carefully at the time .
1099 been-had Vin had been in skaa tenements before , but never before had they seemed so ... depressing .
1100 been-had Kelsier had led her along , telling her to trust and to love , but Reen had always been the truthful one .
1101 been-had He could n't see anymore , not as he once had , but he had been given something better .
1102 been-had It had been a clever idea , far more clever than Vin 's foolish attempt with the Eleventh Metal -- however , it had proven equally faulty .
1103 been-had He had been far from a perfect brother , but he had loved her nonetheless .
1104 been-had Eighty percent of those arrested are younger than 30 , and 40 percent are under 21 , he said.In early July , Mr. Comey said the authorities had thwarted multiple attacks being plotted for July 4 by the Islamic State and its sympathizers in the United States , though he did not say what the plots entailed or how many people had been arrested .
1105 been-had It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
1106 been-had It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
1107 been-had After returning to the governorship , Mr. Perry admitted he had been ill-prepared for the demands of a national campaign and noted that , because of back surgery shortly before he entered the race , he had been in physical pain for much of that campaign .
1108 been-had After returning to the governorship , Mr. Perry admitted he had been ill-prepared for the demands of a national campaign and noted that , because of back surgery shortly before he entered the race , he had been in physical pain for much of that campaign .
1109 been-is The other recourse would have been to drive Qaddafi out of power but then '' continue to be involved post-conflict , to help ensure that the government that emerges is a partner . ''
1110 been-is ` But we 're not counting on that , ' the president stressed , ` and that 's the thing I want to emphasize , because even over the last several weeks and today , as we announce the deal , what 's been striking to me is that , increasingly , the critics are shifting off the nuclear issue , and they 're moving into , ` Well , even if the nuclear issue is dealt with , they 're still going to be sponsoring terrorism , and they 're going to get this sanctions relief .
1111 been-is My high school physics probably is n't equal to Ernie Moniz 's , but I do remember it 's not that easy to suddenly just hide potentially radioactive material that 's been developed .
1112 been-is ` And then I think the last thing that - this is maybe not something I 've learned but has been confirmed - even with your enemies , even with your adversaries , I do think that you have to have the capacity to put yourself occasionally in their shoes , and if you look at Iranian history , the fact is that we had some involvement with overthrowing a democratically elected regime in Iran .
1113 been-is A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
1114 been-is A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
1115 been-is Kabila , who has been in power since 2001 , has remained quiet about his future in politics , but Congo has never had a peaceful transfer of power in its 55 years of independence.The new U.S. special envoy to the Great Lakes , Thomas Perriello , met with Kabila on Wednesday before holding his first press conference there.The election process is as important as election day and `` many partners must be involved in ensuring a truly free and transparent elections cycle here , '' he said.Tensions have been high between the president and opposition parties , who fear election delays could keep Kabila in office beyond constitutional limits.Kabila called for a dialogue in June but opposition parties refused to participate without international mediation .
1116 been-is Ramos , who has been called the Walter Cronkite of Latino America for the tremendous influence he holds with Hispanic viewers , said that he could not recall Spanish-language news media covering a story as aggressively as it has Mr. Trump 's candidacy.And though cable news and the Sunday morning news shows have blanketed their political coverage with stories about many aspects of Mr. Trump 's improbable campaign , the focus of Spanish-language news programs has been almost exclusively on Mr. Trump 's controversial stance on immigration.About 58 percent of all mentions of Mr. Trump in mainstream news media - broadcast , cable , radio and online outlets - in the past month have focused on immigration , while on Spanish-language news programs , the proportion is almost 80 percent , according to an analysis by Two .42 .
1117 been-is The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to publicly discuss national security matters.Some F.B.I. investigators privately disagree with the intense focus , which draws resources away from other investigations and sometimes has led to frustration inside the bureau and the Justice Department.After years of watching for large-scale plots , investigators are now trying to identify and prevent shootings and stabbings - violence on a scale that is common in major American cities but has never been a priority for the F.B.I. Preventing Islamic State-inspired violence is a priority , and current and former investigators say they feel tremendous pressure to succeed .
1118 been-is When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
1119 been-is ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
1120 been-is ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
1121 been-is I think that no one here in South Carolina has any illusions that Lindsey Graham is on a fast track or even near the front part of the pack in that crowded group , ' said Robert Wislinski , a political strategist in the state.In previous election cycles , that might not have been the case for someone with Mr. Graham 's credentials .
1122 been-is `` I 've been meaning to ask this for a while , '' she said , glancing out the window , though all she could see is mist .
1123 been-is I know it 's hard to see -- things have been this way for so long -- but something very serious is wrong with the way skaa live .
1124 been-is ` We 've been through other periods of high threat , but this time is different because of the proven reach of ISIS into Europe and the U.S. , ' said Matthew G. Olsen , a former director of the National Counterterrorism Center .
1125 been-is The question is whether to do it honestly or not : whether to engage in a straightforward exercise that would require honestly confronting the 2011 budget agreement ; or whether to pump more money into the Pentagon 's Overseas Contingency Operations account , or O.C.O.This would represent a further corruption of an account created to underwrite the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq but has since been used for purposes unrelated to these conflicts , like the bombing in Syria .
1126 been-is And most of the Islamic State-inspired plots so far have been unsophisticated but increasingly difficult for the authorities to detect in advance.American officials say this is not a black-and-white debate between those who worry more about Al Qaeda as the main threat to the homeland and those who say it is the Islamic State .
1127 been-is And most of the Islamic State-inspired plots so far have been unsophisticated but increasingly difficult for the authorities to detect in advance.American officials say this is not a black-and-white debate between those who worry more about Al Qaeda as the main threat to the homeland and those who say it is the Islamic State .
1128 been-is To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
1129 been-is It is because the metropolises of Beijing and Tianjin and adjacent Hebei province have become too uncoordinated and unbalanced in terms of their economic development and social progress over the past more than three decades.No matter how developed and modern Beijing is as the capital , it is no secret that its development has been accompanied by ills such as traffic congestion , too large a population , too high housing prices , serious air pollution caused by car exhaust emissions and industrial pollution from adjacent areas .
1130 been-is His enthusiasm is growing ' Mr. Sugarman said , because ` people are responsive to what he is saying in a larger venue than has ever been the case before , and probably because they agree with him . '
1131 been-lindsey I think that no one here in South Carolina has any illusions that Lindsey Graham is on a fast track or even near the front part of the pack in that crowded group , ' said Robert Wislinski , a political strategist in the state.In previous election cycles , that might not have been the case for someone with Mr. Graham 's credentials .
1132 been-loved He had been far from a perfect brother , but he had loved her nonetheless .
1133 been-proven It had been a clever idea , far more clever than Vin 's foolish attempt with the Eleventh Metal -- however , it had proven equally faulty .
1134 been-reacted Her speed on the wet cobblestones would have been reckless , but her pewterfueled muscles reacted with precision , strength , and balance .
1135 been-seemed Her attendance seemed important to him , but he rarely paid much attention to her other than to ask how her day had been .
1136 been-seemed They seemed enthusiastic about their training , but that might have just been due to the regular meals .
1137 been-seemed Vin had been in skaa tenements before , but never before had they seemed so ... depressing .
1138 been-seemed He had been awake only a few hours , but he already seemed tired .
1139 been-shattered Allomancers might have been more effective , but using Allomancy near atium crystals shattered them .
1140 been-sneaking Grabbing a carriage and sneaking out of the palace grounds had been an extreme move , perhaps , but it had been ridiculously easy .
1141 been-tried He 'd tried to find her once his meeting was over , but apparently she 'd been in a private gathering of her own .
1142 been-tried Elend tried to walk quietly on the carpeted floor , but he 'd never really been all that stealthy .
1143 been-tried Could have been ... The events of the last day were difficult enough to sort through ; Vin had n't even tried to make sense of her emotions , which were a far bigger mess .
1144 been-walk Elend tried to walk quietly on the carpeted floor , but he 'd never really been all that stealthy .
1145 begin-grabbed She felt herself begin to move again , but Kelsier grabbed her .
1146 behaved-find ` You 're not going to find any of the Republicans , even those who might well have behaved like Obama , standing up and defending Obama , ' said Richard Perle , a pro-interventionist defense official who served in the Reagan administration.The movement of Republican public opinion is striking .
1147 beheaded-did Did n't even bother sending him to the Pits -- they beheaded him on the spot . ''
1148 behring-produce ` The fight in Europe is exactly the same as ours , ' he said.The movement is bound to produce more violence , not necessarily from organized groups but from lone wolves like Anders Behring Breivik , the Norwegian terrorist who killed more than 70 people in his country in 2011 because he wanted ` to save Europe from Islam . '
1149 being-did He described his brother as capable , but acknowledged being a liability to the former Florida governor 's all-but-announced candidacy , noting that it was easy for rivals to say in debates that the nation did not need another Bush .
1150 being-did `` But the remark , at least on its surface , was about the courage it takes for students to go back to community college after being out for years.Biden later mingled with the types of donors he 'd need to challenge Clinton for the nomination.At the fundraiser , Biden spoke about the need to elect more Democrats to the Senate but did not address his 2016 plans , according to two donors who attended the event .
1151 being-did Being nobility -- even fake nobility -- certainly did have its perks .
1152 being-did Eighty percent of those arrested are younger than 30 , and 40 percent are under 21 , he said.In early July , Mr. Comey said the authorities had thwarted multiple attacks being plotted for July 4 by the Islamic State and its sympathizers in the United States , though he did not say what the plots entailed or how many people had been arrested .
1153 being-done Years before , he had become the most infamous crewleader in Luthadel , and he had done it without even being an Allomancer .
1154 being-overhear In fact , just by being at these parties -- even if you do n't overhear anything -- you will get us information . ''
1155 being-s A website with Deez Nuts 's platform suggests a Libertarian tinge , including giving voting rights to citizens of American Samoa , but deporting illegal immigrants with ` the lone exception of being a minor . ''
1156 being-s Being immune to -- but ignorant of -- some Soother 's attentions ?
1157 being-s It 's like the regular obligators do n't even care about the world outside , except for the prestige they earn by being the most clever or successful in applying the Lord Ruler 's dictates .
1158 being-s As the nation 's first lady , she fought for health insurance for poor children.Even now , in her second presidential bid , Mrs. Clinton - often accused of being too cautious - has used some of her boldest language on issues of racial justice.Mr .
1159 being-s It had 921,000 streams being viewed at one time , when usage peaked at 9:45 p.m.For much of the year , Jeb Bush has sent conflicting signals about how he planned to deal with the legacy of his brother , former President George W. Bush - reaching for it in some cases , distancing himself in others.But on Thursday , the day after the second Republican presidential debate , in which he strongly defended his brother against Donald J. Trump , Mr. Bush highlighted that moment on his Twitter feed.Around noon , Mr. Bush sent out this remark , ` When it comes to my brother , there 's one thing I know for sure .
1160 being-worried Elend thought that he was being careful , but Vin was worried .
1161 believe-contradict Vin did n't contradict him , but he could see in her eyes that she did n't believe him .
1162 believe-intend I 'll believe that you are n't after the money -- I 'll even believe that you intend to deliver Yeden this army he 's apparently paying you for .
1163 believe-label `` Look , I know that it 's fashionable for the women of court to label all men brutes , but you have to believe me .
1164 believe-predicts They `` may not believe we can do it , but I sure as heck do , '' he said.Bush said he wants to create a tax code that is `` simple , fair and clear , '' and predicts it will help the economy grow 4 percent annually , a target many economists say is highly unrealistic.Under his plan , Bush wants to reduce the corporate income tax from 35 percent - among the highest in the world - to 20 percent and give businesses the chance to deduct new capital investments immediately .
1165 believe-restrained She could make Arriev more inclined to believe ... but something restrained her .
1166 believed-disrupted Mr. Cummings 's strategy helped identify Al Qaeda leaders worldwide and disrupted attacks , including a 2009 plot to bomb New York 's subways , but the approach always came with an important caveat : If agents believed a threat was imminent and uncontrollable , they should move quickly .
1167 bending-did Shan grunted in pain , bending slightly , but she did n't fall .
1168 besieged-interviewed Mr. Olson , who farms 2,000 acres of corn and soybeans , said in an interview that Deez Nuts was his son Brady , who begins his sophomore year in high school next week.Like any surging candidate , Deez Nuts has been besieged with requests from the national news media since becoming an Internet meme , but has said he would be interviewed only by email .
1169 betray-explains I do n't know if your ability to see through copperclouds explains everything , but ... well , given the choice , I 'd rather believe that Mare did n't betray me . ''
1170 betray-loving But ... do you stop loving someone just because they betray you ?
1171 betray-turned The fact that she was sent to die hints that maybe she really did n't betray me , but ... '' He turned toward Vin .
1172 betrayed-had He had betrayed her in the end , but for a time he had almost been a friend .
1173 betrayed-loved `` I loved Mare too , even after she betrayed me .
1174 betrayed-was He 'd betrayed her , but this was the underworld .
1175 betraying-contemplate Surely you realize that betraying me is not something you want to even contemplate . ''
1176 betraying-send If he were , instead , a skaa soldier -- enticed into betraying his people in exchange for a few coins ... Well , then , Kelsier was even happier to send such men into their eternity .
1177 betting-increased Although there 's little evidence of a crime wave outside of a few major cities where homicides have increased , the political rationale seems obvious : The candidates are playing to the G.O.P. base , a normal part of the primary season.Another possibility , though , is that Republicans are also still searching for the best angle of attack against Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Democrats , who remain narrow betting market favorites in 2016 .
1178 betting-show In particular , polls show that majorities of Hispanics , young people and unmarried women - the voters who were central to Mr. Obama 's victories in 2008 and 2012 - support candidates who back climate change policy.But Republicans are betting that despite the polls , they can make the case that regulations to cut greenhouse pollution will result in the loss of jobs and hurt the economy .
1179 bite-did The reason they did was because my administration , our diplomats , and oftentimes me personally , were able to persuade them that the only way to resolve this nuclear problem was to make these sanctions bite .
1180 blame-coming I do n't blame you men for your choices , but a time of change is coming .
1181 blanketed-covering Ramos , who has been called the Walter Cronkite of Latino America for the tremendous influence he holds with Hispanic viewers , said that he could not recall Spanish-language news media covering a story as aggressively as it has Mr. Trump 's candidacy.And though cable news and the Sunday morning news shows have blanketed their political coverage with stories about many aspects of Mr. Trump 's improbable campaign , the focus of Spanish-language news programs has been almost exclusively on Mr. Trump 's controversial stance on immigration.About 58 percent of all mentions of Mr. Trump in mainstream news media - broadcast , cable , radio and online outlets - in the past month have focused on immigration , while on Spanish-language news programs , the proportion is almost 80 percent , according to an analysis by Two .42 .
1182 blasted-hides The girl has a headstrong streak , Dox -- she hides it well , but she 's blasted stubborn when she wants to be . ''
1183 blemishing-garner Obama will likely have to veto a resolution of disapproval by lawmakers , blemishing his signature foreign policy initiative , but he appears on track to garner enough from support from Democrats to hold off Republican override efforts.Obama is also hoping to avoid the second government shutdown of his presidency .
1184 blinded-enhanced The light nearly blinded him , and the pain in his arm and side suddenly seemed more acute , but the burst of enhanced senses cleared his head .
1185 blinked-restored The sudden wash of senses restored her sanity , however , and she blinked , looking up at Kelsier .
1186 block-opposing ` On behalf of 26 million Texans , I want to thank New York for sending us reinforcements , ' Mr. Cruz said at the event , according to a video posted on YouTube.And Mr. Zeldin has taken votes that may prove challenging to defend in his moderate district , recently voting for a spending bill that cut spending for mass transit , and at one point opposing a measure to finance the Department of Homeland Security , because it did not block Mr. Obama 's latest round of executive orders on illegal immigration.Multiple Democrats have already entered the race against him .
1187 block-threw The remaining Inquisitor moved to block her , but she reached inside her cloak and threw out a large handful of pewter dust .
1188 blocked-knocked Demoux blocked the powerful swing , but Bilg knocked the boy 's weapon aside with a careless sweep .
1189 blocked-revealed The boy was at least competent -- he blocked the blows , but he revealed a great deal about his abilities as he did so .
1190 blowing-whipped He Pushed against the dust , blowing it away , but as he did so , Vin whipped out a glass dagger and flipped it toward him .
1191 blown-quested Vin quested desperately for an anchor , but he had blown all of the metal out of the room .
1192 blurred-enhanced They were faint , blurred to even her tin-enhanced eyes , but she could just barely make them out .
1193 blurring-thrived ` But in a sign of the company 's diverse , bipartisan appeal , particularly among consumers , its roster of advocates and detractors are blurring familiar demographic and ideological divisions.Republican candidates are embracing Uber not just as a paragon of their free-market ethos and distaste for entrenched , government-protected industries , but also as an electoral strategy for building bridges to traditionally Democratic cities , where the company has thrived .
1194 bodes-gore That bodes well for the Democratic nominee , though as Mr. Gore 's loss despite winning the popular vote shows , even a favorable economy does n't assure victory , given the workings of the Electoral College .
1195 boiling-is Others questioned his sophistication in boiling down national security challenges to matters of ` safety ' ; he believes people relate to that word , whereas ` national security ' is an elitist phrase.And his repeated comments that the most important foreign policy decision of his lifetime was President Ronald Reagan 's firing of air traffic controllers in 1981 , because it got the attention of the Soviet Union , was a sign to some Republicans that Mr. Walker , who dropped out of Marquette University and has not traveled widely abroad , has a limited worldview .
1196 boosting-cutting CEO Dan Price chose to make a statement about equality by not only boosting the company 's minimum wage but also cutting his own pay to $ 70,000 .
1197 bore-flared She bore it without much visible discomfort -- though she obviously had her pewter flared .
1198 bore-recovered He had recovered quickly indeed -- though Vin still bore bruises , fractures , and cuts from the fight , he seemed to have already healed his broken ribs .
1199 bore-slumped She slumped against the wood , but bore the punishment silently .
1200 born-whisper Other legends whisper that we are something beyond even the Lord Ruler 's power , something that was born on that day when the mists first came upon the land . ''
1201 borne-kill They would kill some of their own soldiers , but the brunt of their attack would be borne by the fleeing prisoners .
1202 bother-did Did n't even bother sending him to the Pits -- they beheaded him on the spot . ''
1203 bother-did The mists did n't bother him anymore -- even beatings did n't bother him much anymore .
1204 bother-did The mists did n't bother him anymore -- even beatings did n't bother him much anymore .
1205 bother-did Two spears through the chest did n't even bother him , Vin thought as she leapt the last bit of distance up to the top of the dais .
1206 bother-pitch If Mrs. Clinton 's pitch to voters is that she can make the system more effective , Mr. Sanders is arguing that Mr. Obama was naïve to even bother with a system that needs to be fundamentally changed.It is not a new message for Mr. Sanders , who came up in radical left politics , but the response is something unfamiliar .
1207 bother-recognize I do n't think Ben has the energy , ' Mr. Trump said.Responding to the criticism Sunday on ABC 's ` This Week , ' Mr. Carson said , ` It does n't bother me , because I recognize I have plenty of energy , operating on people for 10 , 12 , sometimes for greater than 20 hours at a time . '
1208 bother-serve `` Few people expect a man of your age and mercantile concerns to bother himself with balls and parties , but having a young socialite to send instead of a rejection note will serve as an advantage to your reputation . ''
1209 bother-tresting It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
1210 bothered-did They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1211 bothered-did The others did n't question him out loud , as per his request , but he could tell that they were still bothered by his growing fame .
1212 bothered-stepping He avoided stepping on the plants -- though he was n't sure why he bothered .
1213 bounced-zipping The metal disks shot forward , zipping through the air , but his enemies were ready for this : They raised their shields , and the coins bounced off the wood , throwing up splinters but leaving the men unharmed .
1214 bound-had Kelsier certainly had his quirks -- though , anyone who had spent so long at the Pits of Hathsin was bound to be left a bit strange .
1215 braddock-said `` He said he could not , however , promise that he alone `` could fundamentally change Washington , D.C. , any more than I could bring back the 14 furniture stores that Braddock once had , '' Fetterman told the crowd .
1216 brave-chose `` Your uncle was brave to come here and try to establish himself , but he chose the wrong time .
1217 brave-was His words were brave , but he was obviously no soldier .
1218 break-hide We hide Keepers beneath his very eyes , and some of us even gather the courage to break our training . ''
1219 breaking-protested Even his strengthened muscles protested at the treatment , but he stopped without breaking any bones .
1220 breaks-hold `` In two months ' time , I want this city to be so tense that when it finally breaks , even the Lord Ruler wo n't be able to hold it together . ''
1221 breathe-wondered The skaa were packed so closely , she wondered how they even had room to breathe .
1222 bribe-fight With it , we can bribe the Garrison , and our men wo n't even have to fight .
1223 brighten-plunging He 'd been forced to wiggle through cracks , plunging downward in the darkness , not even given a light to brighten his way .
1224 brings-come `` I do not know if Master Kelsier will be the one who finally brings its end , but that end will come .
1225 brings-is `` Election season always brings out crazy ideas , but this is one of the craziest .
1226 broaden-s `` Paul has worked aggressively to broaden his support beyond the small , but passionate group of his father 's loyal supporters .
1227 broke-sends The Lord Ruler sends squads out on patrol sometimes , but the only time I know of the entire Garrison leaving was when that skaa rebellion broke out down in Courteline a half century ago . ''
1228 brought-were Kelsier nodded as a servant brought him a warm , damp cloth to clean his face and arms -- though Kelsier was n't certain if the servants were worried about his comfort or the ash he might get on the furniture .
1229 brought-were The evening 's foods -- brought on the barges especially for the occasion -- were humble by aristocratic standards , but were much finer than what the soldiers were used to .
1230 brought-were The evening 's foods -- brought on the barges especially for the occasion -- were humble by aristocratic standards , but were much finer than what the soldiers were used to .
1231 bucked-dale Caddo , he noted , has bucked the national trend in large part because of one man : Dale Cox.Mr .
1232 built-waned The screams waned , but Kelsier 's anger only built .
1233 buried-loosen WASHINGTON - The $ 4 trillion budget that President Obama released Monday is more utopian vision than pragmatic blueprint for his final years in office , but buried in the document are kernels of proposals that could take root even with a hostile Republican Congress.In his penultimate budget , Mr. Obama proclaimed victory in the long climb from deep recession and said the time had come to loosen the strictures of austerity to invest in the nation 's future , laying out a plan likely to shape the 2016 presidential contests .
1234 burn-expecting Instinctively , she tried to burn iron , expecting the blue lines to appear -- but , of course , she had no iron to burn .
1235 burn-nodded Vin nodded , leaving her tin on but picking another metal to burn as well .
1236 burn-paused The table was too far away to hear unaided , but with tin ... She reached inside to burn the metal , but then paused .
1237 burn-waited She reached to burn copper and tin , but waited -- the disturbance was getting closer .
1238 burned-was They still burned sometimes , though he was certain the pain was only in his mind .
1239 burned-was They still burned sometimes , though he was certain the pain was only in his mind .
1240 burning-carrying She was n't carrying any metal -- not even coins -- and she kept her copper burning to hide her use of Allomancy .
1241 burning-feel Today , when he was in the square , I could feel his touch on my emotions even when I was burning copper . ''
1242 burning-sense `` Kelsier , '' she said slowly , `` I think that Inquisitors can sense our Allomancy even when we 're burning copper . ''
1243 burning-started `` So , '' Marsh said , `` just burning those storages would make him even younger than when he started ? ''
1244 burning-touched However , burning tin made the night seem even more chilly to his overly sensitive skin , and his feet registered every pebble and wooden ripple they touched .
1245 burning-was She was n't carrying any metal -- not even coins -- and she kept her copper burning to hide her use of Allomancy .
1246 burning-was It was distant , but Vin had grown into the habit of burning a little bit of tin at all times .
1247 burning-was Today , when he was in the square , I could feel his touch on my emotions even when I was burning copper . ''
1248 burst-hurling They burst into the corridor , but Vin jumped and Pushed against the lantern brackets , hurling herself down the hallway .
1249 bustled-was Apprentices bustled in the workroom and housekeepers worked upstairs , but the kitchen was quiet .
1250 buttoning-wearing He had taken to wearing nicer clothing -- not quite a full gentlemen 's suit like Dockson or Breeze , but at least a well-cut jacket and trousers , with a buttoning shirt beneath , all kept clean of soot .
1251 buy-scour There are lots of other politicians out there who also refuse to buy into right-wing economic nonsense , but who do so without proposing to scour the countryside in search of immigrants to deport , or to rip up our international economic agreements and start a trade war .
1252 buying-purchasing He 's making neither allies nor enemies at the moment -- he 's buying a large number of weapons and armor , but is probably just purchasing from a wide variety of houses and merchants , thereby ingratiating himself to them all .
1253 calibrate-loves We have a primary process that wo n't graduate anyone who loves the gays too much but a general election that could , for the first time , punish anyone who loves the gays too little.And so we must calibrate .
1254 call-fatten Not just militarily they call the shots , but economically they 're able to exploit the workarounds from sanctions in order to fatten themselves in a situation in which you have a different base of business people and commerce inside of Iran that may change how they think about the cost and benefits of these destabilizing activities .
1255 call-fought Other people call us docile and servile , but we have fought him , in our own way . ''
1256 call-outlined I invited Clubs to a meeting where I outlined a dangerous plan -- one some people might even call stupid .
1257 call-run I 'm what you might call a crewleader -- but I run a crew that is n't like any you 've probably known .
1258 called-committed In addition , advisers like Vance Serchuk , who was Senator Joe Lieberman 's foreign-policy aide and now works in a geopolitical-strategy unit for the global investment firm KKR , and Christian Brose , the staff director of the Senate Armed Services Committee , are not committed to a particular campaign but are routinely called by campaign aides for their thoughts on foreign policy .
1259 called-forged He called the Soviet Union `` the evil empire '' but forged a productive relationship with his counterpart in Moscow , Mikhail Gorbachev .
1260 called-lost `` His true name is lost , though his followers simply called him ` the Ja . '
1261 calls-demurs ` Mrs. Clinton calls it a ` very thoughtful question ' but demurs .
1262 came-flared She flared pewter , but tears came to her eyes anyway .
1263 came-flipped Her Mistcloak came off in his hands , but she flipped to her feet and scrambled away .
1264 came-look I came not only at the behest of Lord Venture , but to ... look in on some matters for the Canton of Inquisition .
1265 came-recruiting You came to me specifically because you were having trouble recruiting people for your army . ''
1266 came-watch ` If you watch the millennial reaction to Hillary , it 's a very different reaction , because a lot of us came up during the '08 elections , ' said Elon James White , an activist and founder of the website ` This Week in Blackness . '
1267 campaigned-emboldened ` As evidence , Republican strategists point to their recent wave of victories in this year 's midterm elections , when they campaigned aggressively against Mr. Obama 's E.P.A. regulations.But Democrats are increasingly emboldened by polls showing that in national elections , candidates who push climate change policies will win support from voters.According to a 2013 poll by Stanford University , 73 percent of Americans believe that the earth has been warming over the past 100 years , while 81 percent of Americans think global warming poses a serious problem in the United States .
1268 camped-defend It 's nice that you feel that you could defend this place , but if there 's an army camped outside trapping you in , this army will effectively become useless to us . ''
1269 capitalizing-launch WASHINGTON - The Obama administration 's top intelligence , counterterrorism and law enforcement officials are divided over which terrorist group poses the biggest threat to the American homeland , the Islamic State or Al Qaeda and its affiliates.The split reflects a rising concern that the Islamic State poses a more immediate danger because of its unprecedented social media campaign , using sophisticated online messaging to inspire followers to launch attacks across the United States.Many intelligence and counterterrorism officials warn , however , that Qaeda operatives in Yemen and Syria are capitalizing on the turmoil in those countries to plot much larger ` mass casualty ' attacks , including bringing down airliners carrying hundreds of passengers.This is not an academic argument .
1270 captivated-shed Clinton 's embrace of campaign finance reform might not only help her shore up support among liberals who are increasingly captivated by Mr. Sanders , but also help her and her husband , former President Bill Clinton , shed their image as overly cozy with the donor class .
1271 captured-changed After John Kerry , a Catholic who backs abortion rights , captured the Democratic nomination in 2004 , a top Vatican official issued a statement saying priests must deny Communion to politicians who hold that position.Francis has taken a more conciliatory tone on abortion , as well as homosexuality , but has n't changed church doctrine.President George W. Bush found himself at odds with the Vatican over the Iraq war .
1272 captured-chased The spies gave themselves away , and likely got chased off -- or even captured -- in the chaos .
1273 care-do Do n't you even care ? ''
1274 care-do `` I do n't know why I even care -- anything you learn is bound to be worthless .
1275 care-do It 's like the regular obligators do n't even care about the world outside , except for the prestige they earn by being the most clever or successful in applying the Lord Ruler 's dictates .
1276 care-noted `` Well , '' he noted , `` you probably are n't the first lady I 've made cry at a ball , but you are the first one I 've made cry that I sincerely care about .
1277 cared-exploited It had n't mattered to Kelsier and the others that she drained their resources -- they had n't exploited her weakened state , but had cared for her , each one spending time at her bedside .
1278 cared-looked Elend looked into those eyes -- eyes that were angry not because they cared for Elend 's safety , but because Elend dared defy them .
1279 cared-snap A part of him wanted to snap back at his father , to make a stand -- not because he cared about where he dined , but because of something far more important .
1280 cares-doubt `` I doubt the Lord Ruler even knows , or cares , that most of those men were recruited from Luthadel .
1281 carl-extends My colleagues Carl Hulse and Jason Horowitz reported that the skepticism even extends to Mr. Biden 's friends and many Obama 2008 supporters - exactly the sort of people who ought to be most receptive to his candidacy.Mr .
1282 carlin-jeopardizing ` It 's like in old cartoons where you would have a stick of dynamite and a long fuse , except now the fuse is much shorter - the flash to bang is much faster , ' John P. Carlin , the assistant attorney general for national security , said in an interview.But critics say the return to a faster-moving approach raises the possibility that , in the rush to make arrests , the government is jeopardizing criminal cases and missing opportunities to gather intelligence .
1283 carried-gathered Structures were generally darkest at the top , where the ash gathered , but rainwaters and evening condensations had carried the stains over ledges and down walls .
1284 carried-got Romney carried married women by a relatively modest 7 points , 53-46 , but he got crushed among single women , 67-31 .
1285 carried-pushed The arrowheads themselves , however , continued forward -- no longer Pushed from behind , but still carried by a deadly momentum .
1286 carried-sparkled His fingers sparkled with rings , and he even carried a fine dueling cane .
1287 carried-won President Barack Obama won the state in the general election in 2008 , but Republican nominee Mitt Romney carried it in 2012 .
1288 carry-pinpoint But it is the first time senior American officials have spoken so openly about the evolution.How much the United States spends on counterterrorism is difficult to pinpoint because many of the main actors and agencies - American troops , C.I.A. analysts and F.B.I. agents , to name a few - carry out other functions , as well .
1289 carrying-holds `` Anderson was one of the more than 50 voters interviewed by The Associated Press the week before Labor Day in Ohio , which along with Florida will be one of the most coveted states in the 2016 election.No GOP nominee has ever won the White House without carrying Ohio.Voters report that the Republican primary is wide open , even as Trump holds steady in the polls.But there 's little interest in establishment candidates such as former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush , and a surprising lack of energy for Ohio Gov. John Kasich.Voters did say there 's room for someone other than Trump to tap into their frustration with a political system they believe has abandoned them.When it comes to Trump , Ohio Republicans have a palpable excitement about his brash brand of politics - and a deep uncertainty about his qualifications to serve as president.Earl Taggart , 44 , a Cincinnati-area electrician , said Trump 's bluntness is forcing other candidates to address issues they would rather avoid , including illegal immigration .
1290 carved-seen Somehow she knew each of those capstones was intricately carved , despite the fact that they were too far away to be seen from below .
1291 casts-microtargeting At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
1292 catch-making ` Mr. Perry was making his second consecutive run for the presidency but it failed to catch fire , and in recent weeks his small cadre of advisers had been discussing whether he should drop out of the race .
1293 catch-reflected He could n't see ; he was too far beneath the surface to catch even a reflected glimpse of sunlight .
1294 catch-winning As a two-term governor in a critical swing state - no candidate since John F. Kennedy in 1960 has won the White House without winning Ohio - he is a credible candidate , though his late entry means he has catch-up work to do .
1295 catching-slammed He slammed against the side of the building , but continued to Pull , catching himself on the upper side of a windowsill .
1296 caught-noticed She only caught the barest flicker of it -- she would n't have even noticed that much without Breeze 's training .
1297 caught-sat Clubs sat quietly by the side wall , looking as curmudgeonly as ever , but Vin caught sight of a slight smile on his lips .
1298 caught-was He , too , ultimately said he was sorry.While Clinton 's apology may ease the anxiety among some Democrats , it 's unlikely to end the political fallout.Republican National Committee spokeswoman Allison Moore suggested Tuesday that Clinton was only apologizing because `` she got caught and is dropping in the polls .
1299 caught-was He , too , ultimately said he was sorry.While Clinton 's apology may ease the anxiety among some Democrats , it 's unlikely to end the political fallout.Republican National Committee spokeswoman Allison Moore suggested Tuesday that Clinton was only apologizing because `` she got caught and is dropping in the polls .
1300 caught-was Apparently , their meeting was a matter of idle happenstance -- but I fear she may have caught his eye . ''
1301 caught-was The other day , she 'd caught herself sitting straight-backed in her carriage with a prim posture , despite the fact that she was alone .
1302 caught-was He , too , ultimately said he was sorry.While Clinton 's apology may ease the anxiety among some Democrats , it 's unlikely to end the political fallout.Republican National Committee spokeswoman Allison Moore suggested Tuesday that Clinton was only apologizing because `` she got caught and is dropping in the polls .
1303 caught-was He , too , ultimately said he was sorry.While Clinton 's apology may ease the anxiety among some Democrats , it 's unlikely to end the political fallout.Republican National Committee spokeswoman Allison Moore suggested Tuesday that Clinton was only apologizing because `` she got caught and is dropping in the polls .
1304 caught-was Apparently , their meeting was a matter of idle happenstance -- but I fear she may have caught his eye . ''
1305 caught-was The other day , she 'd caught herself sitting straight-backed in her carriage with a prim posture , despite the fact that she was alone .
1306 cause-chomping `` There may be cause for optimism , however , in the face of Gary Heavin , a cigar-chomping billionaire and Republican donor who was at Paul 's side much of the week , having arrived with the senator and some of the other doctors on his private jet.Heavin , the Texas-based founder of the Curves health club franchise , has been active in Haitian charity work since a 2010 earthquake left more than 100,000 dead and millions homeless in the nation 's capital , Port-au-Prince .
1307 cause-suppress Maybe we can cause enough chaos that even the Garrison wo n't be able to suppress it . ''
1308 caused-watch `` I 'm going to watch those people 's deaths -- because indirectly , I caused them . ''
1309 celebrate-creating ` Smarter unions and smarter Democrats are going to try to figure out a 21st-century set of policies to make sure that workers who are actually creating wealth get to share in it , ' said David Rolf , the president of the Service Employees International Union Local 775 in the Northwest.Interviews with several Uber drivers here suggest they are eager for greater protections , even as they celebrate the company 's flexible hours .
1310 championing-prevailing He has denied the prevailing science on climate change , most recently in an interview last week with the talk show host Seth Meyers.Notably , however , Mr. Cruz has also begun championing a message of economic populism , denouncing income inequality and borrowing the ` two Americas ' metaphor used most famously by former Senator John Edwards in two unsuccessful campaigns for the Democratic presidential nomination.Since starting his campaign for the Senate in 2011 , Mr. Cruz has often defied and battled his party 's establishment .
1311 change-differentiates But he also stressed his willingness to work with union leaders - something he said differentiates him from one of his chief rivals , former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.Bush had said earlier that he 'd love a day when he and American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten `` could hold hands and sing Kumbaya , '' but said `` she 's not going to change . ''
1312 change-seated Because members must remain seated when the doors are locked , they worked the phones to try to change votes.Some members had quietly indicated that they would be the 63rd vote but did not want to change their votes before that .
1313 change-soliciting Charges for mass emails are a fraction of that.And email still dominates in soliciting smaller donations , although that could change .
1314 change-supposed Noblemen were n't supposed to be afraid of such things , but that did n't change the fact that the deep , caliginous mist was just plain creepy .
1315 changed-was It was dark , silent , and lonely ; even the war had n't changed very much .
1316 changed-was If Mrs. Clinton 's pitch to voters is that she can make the system more effective , Mr. Sanders is arguing that Mr. Obama was naïve to even bother with a system that needs to be fundamentally changed.It is not a new message for Mr. Sanders , who came up in radical left politics , but the response is something unfamiliar .
1317 changing-offer A few of them are a little more odd -- making a Feruchemist heavier , or changing his age -- but they offer little martial application . ''
1318 changing-raise A lot.A wide range of political science research suggests that if you want to know who will win the presidency , the state of the economy - and especially how economic conditions are changing - matters a great deal , perhaps even more than how charismatic the candidates are or how much money they raise.The election is 16 months away , but knowing what we know now , what should we expect the economic backdrop to be when Americans choose their next president ?
1319 charge-lost Our army lost , true , but they were willing -- with minimal training -- to charge a superior force .
1320 charged-do `` I do n't even get charged up until I hear those words . ''
1321 charted-does ` He does n't need anybody 's money , ' said Maureen Colcord , 60 , a clinical dietitian from Derry.Even as dozens of national and state polls have charted Mr. Trump 's steady ascent , Republican campaigns have taken solace in their conviction that those surveys are flawed and misleading .
1322 chatting-paused The two men were chatting amiably as they walked , but they paused when they saw the empty room .
1323 cheating-do Noblewomen do n't even consider it cheating when their lord sleeps with a skaa woman . ''
1324 cheating-do He said that court women do n't even consider it cheating when their men sleep with skaa whores . ''
1325 check-started Ricchetti , a White House aide in the Clinton administration who is now Mr. Biden 's chief of staff , began talking to donors and supporters in the months before Beau Biden died.In recent weeks , those talks , with local elected officials and party leaders , started again , mostly because well-wishers were calling to check on the Biden family .
1326 cheered-cheering People cheered again below , though she could n't see them , nor see what they were cheering about .
1327 choked-wrenched The man cried out as he was wrenched away from his duel -- but he choked off as the Inquisitor jumped , Pushing against the soldier and crushing the man to the ground .
1328 choose-said `` I did n't choose you men because of your competence , '' Kelsier said , `` though you are certainly skilled .
1329 chose-knew I chose each of you specifically because I knew you to be men of conscience .
1330 chose-marries He chose it for its Republican pedigree and low-risk balance sheet.But unlike competitors , Amalgamated marries its political banking business to $ 40 billion in trust assets , mostly union pension funds , that it has used to help activist investors who share its ideological bent.Amalgamated has been a lead plaintiff in several of the largest derivative lawsuits in recent years , including a successful $ 150 million lawsuit against Duke Energy , one of the largest power companies in the country.The bank is now involved in an effort to lobby state lawmakers in Delaware , where about half of all publicly traded United States corporations are incorporated , to prevent businesses domiciled there from shifting the costs of shareholder lawsuits onto investors.Amalgamated also has deep ties to the liberal philanthropic and nonprofit worlds , including liberal foundations that finance abortion and gay rights causes , some of them clients.In recent months , it has begun branching into what amounts to political investment banking , helping progressive organizations recruit donors.Mr .
1331 chosen-emerged A dearth of tough primaries will most likely leave incumbents ' checkbooks and stamina intact for the general election.A primary drama of sorts has emerged in the Democratic Party , however , where battle lines are drawn less between dogmas than between establishment-chosen candidates and those trying to bust through the Beltway gatekeepers.In Illinois , for instance , Representative Tammy Duckworth , a Democrat favored to take on the deeply vulnerable Republican senator , Mark S. Kirk , is feeling pressure from supporters of Andrea Zopp , a former president of the Chicago Urban League .
1332 chosen-re `` They 're all Seekers -- I 'm not sure if that 's because Seekers are chosen to become Inquisitors , or if the process of becoming an Inquisitor grants the power .
1333 chosen-sitting The building Marsh had chosen was even more run-down than the one Vin and Kelsier had been sitting in .
1334 chuckled-forced Ham chuckled again , but the levity seemed forced .
1335 chuckled-looked Ham looked taken aback , but Breeze chuckled .
1336 chuckled-pulling Kelsier chuckled , but Vin felt a force tug against her belt , pulling her through the air toward him .
1337 chuckled-rolled The group chuckled , though Breeze just rolled his eyes .
1338 citing-faced I would n't put it on a matter of scale as significant as what we faced 10 years ago from Al Qaeda , or even now from Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula or the Khorasan Group , to carry out more significant , perhaps catastrophic , attacks , ' Matthew G. Olsen , a former director of the National Counterterrorism Center , said of the Islamic State threat in a telephone interview , citing Qaeda groups in Yemen and Syria.James R. Clapper Jr. , the director of national intelligence , told the Aspen forum , ` To say one is of greater magnitude than the other , at least for me , is hard .
1339 citing-shown We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
1340 claim-doubt `` Some of the guards claim there was a third Mistborn , fighting the other two , but I doubt the reports -- it was n't one of ours . ''
1341 claim-s The Terris philosophers claim that I 'll know my duty when the time comes , but that 's a small comfort .
1342 claiming-eroded Long seen as a modern and moderate Muslim democracy , Malaysia has been riding on its economic growth and good diplomacy for years , and the United Malays National Organization UMNO , which has led coalition governments for nearly six decades , has been claiming the credit.But rampant corruption , curbs on freedom of expression , a slowing economy and a currency in free fall have eroded public trust in the government 's stewardship .
1343 clarified-described ` Mr. Cox later clarified that he had not seen any case involving cannibalism , though he described it as the next logical step given what he at several points called an ` increase in savagery .
1344 clarify-fallen ONAWA , Iowa - Scott Walker 's suggestion that building a wall between Canada and the U.S. might be a `` legitimate '' idea prompted swift derision from fellow Republicans on Monday and an attempt by his campaign to clarify what he meant.It was the latest misstep for a 2016 presidential candidate who got off to a strong start but has fallen back into the pack after a series of fumbles and a lackluster performance in the first GOP debate.The Wisconsin governor was asked on NBC 's `` Meet the Press '' on Sunday whether he thought a wall should be built along the more than 5,000 miles of border with Canada .
1345 classified-responded But the appeals went unanswered , as he responded with words of thanks but no hint of what he might do.And a special intelligence review of two emails that Mrs. Clinton received as secretary of state on her personal account - including one about North Korea 's nuclear weapons program - has endorsed a finding by the inspector general for the intelligence agencies that the emails contained highly classified information when Mrs. Clinton received them , senior intelligence officials said.Mrs .
1346 clattered-opened Kelsier opened his mouth to respond , but the stairs clattered with the sound of someone coming down .
1347 clawed-felt She clawed at Camon 's hand , but she suddenly felt weak , her inner strength failing her just as her Luck had .
1348 clean-does The Lord Ruler does n't even have the decency to clean up his slaughter ! ''
1349 cleaned-maintained The grounds were kept well maintained , and though the ash had n't been cleaned up yet , the low-cut grass meant that she did n't have to hold her dress up much to keep it from dragging .
1350 cleaning-leave They include the hiring of a man accused of child sexual assault as deputy schools superintendent in Albuquerque and an investigation over potential abuse of power by a senior state executive.The goal , Democratic Party leaders said , is to taint the narrative of Ms. Martinez , the nation 's first female Hispanic governor , as a tough-on-crime leader who campaigned on cleaning up politics and is often mentioned as a potential vice-presidential candidate for a party struggling to improve its image with Hispanic voters.Though she must leave office at the beginning of 2019 because she is limited to two consecutive terms , Ms. Martinez has drawn votes from both sides of the aisle and helped her party make significant gains .
1351 clear-prefer Americans tend to prefer their presidents to be different from their immediate predecessors.But he would hardly clear the field .
1352 climbed-did Vin climbed eagerly , working away her restless energy , but she soon began to puff from the weight of the dress and the difficulty of holding it up so that she did n't trip .
1353 climbed-did Hoid calmly put away the pipe , then climbed to his feet -- though that did n't make him much taller .
1354 climbed-holding Vin climbed eagerly , working away her restless energy , but she soon began to puff from the weight of the dress and the difficulty of holding it up so that she did n't trip .
1355 climbing-walked She took a few breaths -- climbing the stairs had been difficult , even with pewter -- then walked down the corridor to the library .
1356 clinton-fell From this perspective , much of the damage to Mrs. Clinton among Republican-leaning independents was inevitable , while the damage to Democrats can be overcome by partisan loyalty.A good example of this is Mitt Romney , whose ratings fell even lower than Mrs. Clinton 's during the Republican primary .
1357 clinton-poses ` For any white Democrat , the Black Lives Matter movement poses problems , but for Mrs. Clinton , it is particularly fraught .
1358 clinton-run They both may run , even with Mrs. Clinton in the race.Everyone else .
1359 clinton-seeing Many Democratic operatives have a hard time seeing him as the nominee even without Mrs. Clinton .
1360 clipped-crushed Vin saw several people get clipped by its passing , and suspected that if a man were to fall into the carriage 's path , the vehicle would n't even slow as it crushed him to death .
1361 coalesce-unify The G.O.P. has struggled to coalesce behind anything like a consensus candidate because the party is so fractured and the field is so big.The party has huge incentives to unify against Trump .
1362 collect-fundraising His campaign and the Democratic National Committee are among the groups that say they 'll make use of Twitter 's new in-message fundraising.The DNC is interested in the new tool `` because we think it will help give people a chance to show their support without taking them away from one of the platforms where they 're getting their information , '' said Matt Compton , the group 's digital director.Twitter is working with Square Inc. , a financial services company , to collect the money and the information that the Federal Election Commission requires from political donors .
1363 collecting-perturbed He does n't like to bother collecting the atium himself , but he gets very perturbed if the delivery schedule is disrupted . ''
1364 collided-smashing Kelsier collided with the far wall , but kept Pushing , smashing his opponent -- pouch , shield , and all -- against one of the massive conservatory windows .
1365 colored-depict The glass was colored , though it did n't depict any specific scene .
1366 colored-slid Incredibly , bits of colored glass even quivered and slid away from the dais .
1367 combed-was His hair was even combed .
1368 come-is Normally , Tekiel would come next -- but that house is defunct .
1369 come-looking `` Afraid to come to the shop because the Inquisitors are looking for her .
1370 come-owe I 've come to your lair because you , my friends , owe me a great debt . ''
1371 comes-house `` Perhaps Tren-Pedri 's hesitance comes because of House Aime 's connection to House Hasting . ''
1372 comforted-wished The thought comforted her , though she wished she did n't feel the empty space beside her chair quite so keenly .
1373 coming-do I do n't blame you men for your choices , but a time of change is coming .
1374 coming-do I do business with the Mexican people , but you have people coming through the border that are from all over .
1375 coming-protect He claims that he 's doing something to protect the entire world , but that might just be his ego coming through . ''
1376 commend-rely I commend our law enforcement and intelligence professionals for disrupting so many plots recently , but we can not rely on our defenses alone , ' Mr. McCaul said .
1377 committed-running `` I 'm running for the Senate because I 'm committed to doing everything I can to fix it for Arkansas and for our country .
1378 compared-keep Elend found his father in the north entryway -- a smaller , less daunting entrance to Keep Venture , though only when compared with the majestic grand hall .
1379 comparing-obscure And , standing on a stage in front of the giant Boeing 707 that flew as Reagan 's Air Force One , comparing themselves to their party icon was even harder to resist.Yet amid that scramble to claim Reagan 's legacy , the 2016 candidates sometimes obscure the actual record of the man who won two landslide elections a generation ago.Reagan was a champion of cutting taxes , but he also raised them .
1380 compel-prove A new government will have to prove it is up to the job.When the public reporting regulations do come in , however , they should be demanding , and backed up by sufficiently robust fines to compel compliance .
1381 compensate-overcome Grass-roots support and super PACs can help compensate for a lack of broad support , but they probably ca n't overcome broad opposition .
1382 compete-said ` We think we have enough money to compete with anyone , even $ 100 million super PACs , all the way through the convention , ' Mr. Watts , the campaign spokesman , said .
1383 complain-re I know that they 're angry because they would complain about their lives .
1384 complaining-kelsier `` He 's just complaining because he 's worried about you , '' Kelsier said as Ham returned with the bag .
1385 completed-pushed Kelsier Pushed on his own sword even as he completed his swing .
1386 compounding-improve To win the presidency , Republicans clearly need to improve their numbers among women , but their approach on reproductive issues appears likely to make that goal difficult.Further compounding the hurdles facing Republicans are the party 's current drive to defund Planned Parenthood , and the sustained effort to reduce the number of abortion clinics in Republican-controlled states.This effort includes legislation effectively closing such clinics by requiring , in the case of Texas , that ' a physician performing or inducing an abortion must , on the date the abortion is performed , have active admitting privileges at a hospital that is located not further than 30 miles from the location at which the abortion is performed , ' and that abortion facilities must meet the ` minimum standards for ambulatory surgical centers ' ; requiring women to undergo sometimes invasive ultrasound procedures before being allowed to have an abortion ; and imposing restrictions on abortion coverage in private health insurance plans.The conflicts over reproductive rights within both the Republican Party and within the social conservative movement are inevitable .
1387 compromise-transfer He cast himself as an unwavering fighter who would not compromise his principles as president but would rather pursue a decidedly conservative agenda to make people less dependent on government programs and to transfer power from Washington to the states .
1388 compromised-withdrawing Instead he compromised with Congress to extend the cuts for two years and then made some of them permanent.Even on the Iraq war - his signature area of disagreement with his predecessor - Mr. Obama followed Mr. Bush 's timeline for withdrawing troops .
1389 con-s It 's the oldest , but easiest , way to con someone .
1390 concede-energize It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
1391 conceded-prodded Prodded to endorse Hillary Rodham Clinton , his former boss , the mayor declined - again - although he conceded that Mrs. Clinton ` has presented an increasingly compelling vision . '
1392 concedes-declines She concedes that there were unintended negative consequences from her husband 's crime bill , but declines to say there was any racial undertone to that.Mr .
1393 concentrating-dictates Elend sat for a while longer , opening The Dictates of Society for another read , but he had trouble concentrating .
1394 concerned-is State Democrats are concerned that her popularity will help Republican candidates , even if she is not on the ballot .
1395 concerned-is ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
1396 concerned-shows Why , it not only shows every one of the thirty-four Soothing stations , but also locations of Inquisitor activity , as well as places that the different Cantons are concerned about .
1397 concerned-turned They turned away , their faces embarrassed but not concerned .
1398 concerning-lead ` One member of Parliament , Mirdad Khan Nejrabi , said that the casualty rate was ` very concerning ' but would not lead to any large-scale collapse .
1399 condemned-expire He condemned President George W. Bush 's tax cuts for high earners , but did not let them expire on schedule in 2010 .
1400 conducting-rely In interviews , campaign pollsters argue that such polls , conducted largely by media organizations and universities , rely on feedback from many Republicans who are unlikely to vote because the polls do not verify the party registration or voting history of respondents - a fact that those conducting the surveys concede.New data provided to The Times by Civis Analytics , a firm aligned with Democrats and founded by the former chief analytics officer of the Obama re-election campaign , shows that there is merit to those concerns , but not enough to call Mr. Trump 's lead into question .
1401 confidantes-established Almost half live within a few metropolitan areas , sometimes in the same buildings : near Dallas , Houston and New York City , or across the sunny sprawl of southern Florida.But millions of dollars also came from corporate entities with no clear link to a known individual or business : One million-dollar donor to the pro-Bush super PAC is Jasper Reserves , a limited liability corporation established two years ago in West Virginia , where records provided few clues about its owners.Big donors are not only patrons of the candidates but also confidantes , with great access to the candidates - and , sometimes , business before them.Mr .
1402 confirmed-learned ` And then I think the last thing that - this is maybe not something I 've learned but has been confirmed - even with your enemies , even with your adversaries , I do think that you have to have the capacity to put yourself occasionally in their shoes , and if you look at Iranian history , the fact is that we had some involvement with overthrowing a democratically elected regime in Iran .
1403 confirms-redacted And last year , when the government declassified documents about an aborted challenge to the program by a phone company in late 2009 , it redacted the firm 's name , but officials said it was Sprint.The Justice Department letter confirms that both of those companies have been participants.But the document also contained a surprise .
1404 confronted-had They seemed a bit confused to be confronted by a nobleman , but they still had superior numbers .
1405 connected-entered ` When I entered this race , all the political pundits said , ` It 's impossible ; you ca n't do it because you 're not connected with the money , '' ' Mr. Carson said .
1406 connecting-finds But he appears to be connecting with Republican voters at a rate that even his closest aides did n't predict.Heading into Wednesday night 's second debate of the GOP contest , Carson finds himself alongside Trump atop the field.A New York Times/CBS News poll released Tuesday shows Carson favored by 23 percent of likely Republican primary voters compared to Trump 's 27 percent .
1407 connects-taxpaying ` The document is undergirded by two major presidential initiatives that have virtually no chance in Congress : large tax increases on multinational corporations and the rich , and a comprehensive immigration law that would lift the economy with millions of newly legalized , taxpaying workers.The proceeds of those initiatives would pay for free community college , more generous child care subsidies and education tax credits , paid sick leave , expanded unemployment benefits , and tax credits for two-earner middle-class couples , among other offerings.The White House even did away with the usual plain blue budget document cover for a gritty black-and-white photo of the Tappan Zee Bridge in New York , making vivid the president 's emphasis on ' a 21st-century infrastructure that creates jobs for thousands of construction workers and engineers , connects hard-working Americans to their jobs , and makes it easier for businesses to transport goods , ' as Mr. Obama wrote in the opening budget message.The push reflects the degree to which Mr. Obama emerged from last year 's midterm election losses determined to reinforce - rather than scale back - his belief that the government should play a fundamental role in spreading economic prosperity .
1408 connie-have Trump may have a lot of money , but he is refusing to spend it on his campaign , like by buying television ads , spending on ballot access , or paying for campaign rallies , The Wall Street Journal reports.The fact that former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas , Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , and Mr. Santorum are continuing their campaigns despite fund-raising woes shows how ` super PACs ' can keep failing campaigns alive , Politico reports.Connie 's Fried Chicken in Tupelo , Miss. , has a small dining area , maybe enough to seat 30 or 40 .
1409 conquer-has When he posts answers to supporters ' questions at night - ` It had been my goal to conquer the organ in retirement , ' he wrote recently - the comments routinely number in the thousands.Unlike Mr. Sanders , though , Mr. Carson has nothing against big money .
1410 conquer-has ` Hillary 's playbook has been clear from the start : divide and conquer , because she has no other path to victory , ' said the spokesman , Tim Miller .
1411 conquer-has When he posts answers to supporters ' questions at night - ` It had been my goal to conquer the organ in retirement , ' he wrote recently - the comments routinely number in the thousands.Unlike Mr. Sanders , though , Mr. Carson has nothing against big money .
1412 conquer-has ` Hillary 's playbook has been clear from the start : divide and conquer , because she has no other path to victory , ' said the spokesman , Tim Miller .
1413 consider-have I have some plans , but I want fresh minds to consider our task .
1414 considered-deport Even now , his call to deport everyone who is in the U.S. illegally but let `` the good ones '' return quickly is considered a form of amnesty by some conservatives - not to mention impractical in the eyes of many.And the core of Cruz 's argument is that he 's a `` consistent conservative day in and day out . ''
1415 considered-turned She considered using a bit of Luck on him , but eventually he turned away .
1416 considered-was He was apprehensive , obviously , but held himself well , all things considered .
1417 considers-improving ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
1418 consisted-permitted In 2014 , The Journal , The Washington Post and The Times each reported , citing intelligence officials , that for technical reasons , the program consisted mostly of landline phone records.However , it is not clear whether the inclusion of Verizon Wireless in the name of the court order means it was turning over customer records after all.Ed McFadden , a Verizon spokesman , said he was not permitted to say whether that was the case .
1419 consolidate-overlooked She would have a chance to consolidate the liberal part of the party while other candidates were fighting over the more centrist establishment.Historically , liberal candidates have failed to win the nomination , partly because of the overlooked role that conservative states play in selecting a nominee .
1420 constraining-succeeded But I think that if I were succeeded by a Republican president - and I 'll be doing everything that I can to prevent that from happening - but if I were , that Republican president would be in a much stronger position than I was when I came into office , in terms of constraining Iran 's nuclear program .
1421 constructed-was It was n't rich clothing , but it was well constructed .
1422 constructing-stamp Mr. Carter has spent the years after his single term as president focusing not on constructing a lavish library-memorial , nor on earning millions through speechmaking , but on substantive , civic-spirited initiatives intended to improve the world in ways both big and small.With the Carter Center , Mr. Carter has advocated for democracy abroad and helped stamp out preventable diseases in underdeveloped countries .
1423 contain-flare The vial I gave you was measured to contain about ten minutes ' worth of continuous burning -- though it will go faster if you flare often and slower if you are careful about when you use it . ''
1424 contain-tying Kelsier nodded , tying on the belt -- it had no buckle , but it did contain two small sheaths .
1425 contained-covering But he said that as a general matter , it has been the government 's practice to use broad language covering all of Verizon 's entities in headings of such court orders because it has a complex corporate structure , regardless of whether any specific part was required to provide information under that order.Most of the inspector general reports , unlike the letter , contained redactions .
1426 contained-sleeping It had bars running along three of the four sides , and it contained no furniture -- not even a sleeping mat .
1427 contemplate-is Still , this general unity is glorious , even humbling , to contemplate .
1428 contemplate-is Surely you realize that betraying me is not something you want to even contemplate . ''
1429 contend-enriched At stake , they contend , is the economic security of workers who are uncompensated and unprotected by the traditional structures of employment , even as the owners of the technology are enriched by stock offerings .
1430 contested-reimpose The plaintiffs also argued that the discriminatory impact was intentional and were asking Judge Schroeder to reimpose federal oversight of voting law changes here and in Texas , which legal experts say will be hard to achieve even if the contested laws are overturned .
1431 continue-longed She longed to leap through the mists again , but Kelsier had been reluctant to continue her training .
1432 continue-slow Kelsier raised the booklet to continue ; however , his boat began to slow .
1433 continued-left The servants eventually left her alone , though Sazed continued to loom just behind her .
1434 continued-left In the distance , the massacre continued , though there were n't many rebels left .
1435 continued-prohibited The Canadians and French do , ' he continued , ` but we 're prohibited .
1436 continued-sazed The vehicle continued normally , however , and Sazed did n't move from his place in the driver 's seat .
1437 continues-switch Bush , whose campaign this summer unsuccessfully pushed for Nevada to switch from a caucus system to a primary and who recently chose leaders to run campaign operations in all of the state 's counties , will hold a rally in Reno and a town-hall-style event in Las Vegas later in the day.And Rick Santorum , who won the Iowa caucuses in 2012 , but whose poll numbers left him out of the top 10 for last week 's Republican debate , continues a sustained trip in the state , all part of his goal , his campaign says , ` to reach all 99 Iowa counties .
1438 contradict-outlawed Rand Paul evades it so completely that he gets his own adjective - libertarian - even though some of his positions on social issues contradict it.Chris Christie gets the moderate box , because he was twice elected governor of a blue state ; signed legislation granting in-state tuition to undocumented immigrants in New Jersey ; pushed criminal-justice reforms that stress rehabilitation ; outlawed therapy that aims to turn gay teenagers straight ; and accepted the Medicaid expansion under Obamacare .
1439 contributed-organize While most of the others contributed some kind of Allomantic power to the crew , Dockson was valuable because of his simple ability to organize .
1440 control-re They 're jealous because we control most of the canal systems -- and they might just have a right to be .
1441 controls-fueled ` The electoral commission controls the calendar , but its reluctance to change it has fueled the belief that it is taking its cues from Mr. Kabila .
1442 convinced-thought `` Maybe you thought that because you were already convinced that he was going to leave you . ''
1443 coordinating-known He was already well known because of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee 's stand against the United States ' involvement in the Vietnam War.That touched off a national drama that ended in 1966 when the Supreme Court , in a unanimous decision , ordered the State Assembly to seat him , saying it had denied him freedom of speech.As a lawmaker , he sponsored bills to establish a sickle cell anemia testing program and to provide low-interest home loans to low-income Georgians .
1444 costing-have At the moment , Mr. Obama 's approval ratings and the pace of economic growth are consistent with a close , competitive race , in which the Republicans might have a slight but uncertain edge.There were signs in last year 's midterm elections that dissatisfaction with Mr. Obama 's performance was costing Democrats among white voters without a college degree , most obviously in the countryside of Iowa and Colorado .
1445 coughed-speak She tried to speak , but just coughed again , and the boy hurriedly gave her a cup of water .
1446 countered-interviewed Though a few military and police recruiters interviewed at posts around Kabul said they ultimately came up short of their increased goals , most described continued success at bringing in new soldiers and police officers.A spokesman for the Afghan Defense Ministry , Dawlat Waziri , insisted that desertions remained rare and that there had been no effort to ban leaves or to stop rotations away from the front to cut down on the number of people going absent without leave.But interviews with soldiers and police officers repeatedly countered the government 's claims .
1447 covered-hear Kell 's covered his tracks quite well , but the less the authorities hear , the better , eh ?
1448 covered-swept They kept the room swept of ash , but there was only so much they could do -- black stains still covered clothing , walls , and faces .
1449 cowered-paid Have you ever cowered before your brother as he beat you , all the time feeling thankful because at least you had someone who paid attention to you ? ''
1450 cracked-flared He stumbled to his knees as the wood cracked , but flared tin kept him conscious .
1451 crashed-spin She tried to spin and hit feet-first , but she crashed into a stone pillar at a terrible speed , and pewter failed her .
1452 create-memorize Keepers could , perhaps , memorize languages and religions , but they could n't create seeds for plants that had long been extinct .
1453 created-starting We created a cover story saying that Lady Valette has taken sick , but rumors are starting to appear .
1454 creating-rogers Graham has formed a similar group , Security Through Strength , and has begun traveling to early nominating states to discuss what he calls ` the threat of radical Islam ' as he ponders a presidential run.Mike Rogers , the former Michigan representative and the former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee , is not considering a presidential bid , but he is trying to influence the 2016 race by creating an organization called Americans for Peace Prosperity and Security , which he said would support candidates ` who understand the importance of American engagement . '
1455 credentialed-tempered If the real estate mogul remains atop the polls heading into next year and denies attention to other hard-line candidates , Republicans could flock to support Mr. Bush , the safe , well-credentialed and well-funded son and brother of presidents , to stop Mr. Trump.But any long-term optimism is tempered by recognition that the race has become a grind , and that Mr. Trump has for now made the campaign about himself , his appeal and how far he can go .
1456 cried-thrown The man cried out as Vin Pushed against his breastplate as well -- but he was far heavier than she , and she was thrown backward .
1457 criminalized-remain It included several measures - including the Violence Against Women Act and a federal ban on certain assault weapons - that remain popular among many Democrats.But it also eliminated Pell Grants for prison inmates , criminalized gang membership , contained $ 9.7 billion in funding for new prisons , established a three-strikes provision that mandated life sentences for people with two or more prior convictions found to have committed a violent felony , and gave states incentives to lengthen sentences .
1458 cringe-govern ` We need strength and decision-making and authority back in the Oval Office , ' he said.Pacing the stage without a prepared text and raising his voice to a shout at times , he vowed to campaign and govern as a colorful teller of difficult truths , even if ` it makes you cringe every once in a while . ''
1459 cringing-maintain She tried to force herself to maintain a stiff face in front of the others , but she found herself cringing occasionally , glancing away from mangled corpses .
1460 crippled-possessed The reason we were able to unify the world community around the most effective sanctions regime we 've ever set up , a sanction regime that crippled the Iranian economy and ultimately brought them to the table , was because the world agreed with us , that it would be a great danger to the region , to our allies , to the world , if Iran possessed a nuclear weapon .
1461 criticizes-sold `` Left unmentioned is how Reagan sold arms to Iranians as part of a plan to aid rebel forces in Nicaragua , and Reagan 's famous summits with Gorbachev.Russo , even as he , too , criticizes Obama , said Reagan 's philosophy gets twisted .
1462 criticizing-said Jeffries said , however , that he would not be shy about criticizing Mr. de Blasio when he considered it appropriate .
1463 cropped-was He was impressively muscular , but not massive , and had close-cropped hair that stuck up slightly on his head .
1464 cropped-was Her hair was getting a bit long for her taste -- though somehow she doubted that Sazed was going to let her have it cropped boyishly short .
1465 crowded-slept It was crowded and uncomfortable , but it was far better than the cold alleyways she 'd slept in during her years traveling with Reen .
1466 crowding-push Kelsier could see other squads of imperial soldiers trying to push their way toward the fight , but the thousands of skaa crowding the streets seriously slowed their progress .
1467 cruises-sway Feeding the perception of her strength was the notion that Democrats had an advantage in presidential elections , given their sway among growing parts of the electorate , like young and nonwhite voters , and their apparent Electoral College advantage.But Mrs. Clinton will not be a Democratic Eisenhower , a popular , senior statesperson who cruises to an easy victory .
1468 crush-remain `` The Lord Ruler has tried very hard to crush memories of those days , but still some remain . ''
1469 cry-slamming The second man tried to cry out , but Kelsier jumped , slamming both feet into the man 's chest .
1470 crying-rolled Tears rolled down her cheeks , though when the Lord Ruler turned from her , she could n't quite remember why she had been crying .
1471 cultivated-stood He did n't walk with the same careful air of despondence that Vin had cultivated ; he did n't even seem to care that he stood out from other skaa .
1472 curry-pay `` People will pay attention to me because they wish to curry favor with Lord Renoux .
1473 cursed-hit She hit the ground harder than she had expected , but managed to scramble away from a second soldier , who cursed and swung at her .
1474 cursed-smiled Yeden cursed , but Ham simply smiled .
1475 cushioning-managed She slammed into her target wall just a bit too low -- folds of cloth cushioning the blow -- but she managed to grab the lip of the walkway above .
1476 dabble-let `` If you 're going to dabble with romance , Elend , you need to learn one thing : You can play with women if you want , but do n't let yourself get too close to them .
1477 damaged-thinking After his defeat , Mr. Clinton would have been remembered as yet another weak Democratic candidate in the footsteps of Walter Mondale and Michael Dukakis , fatally damaged before the campaign had even begun , rather than as one of the more talented politicians of our time.For some , this line of thinking offers an uncomfortably deterministic theory about American presidential politics .
1478 dampen-enflame You can dampen my emotions , but can you enflame them too ? ''
1479 dampen-wants An experienced Soother can dampen everything but the emotion he wants to remain dominant . ''
1480 dance-discovered True , her life would be forfeit if her secret were ever discovered , but for now the nobility seemed willing to accept her -- to dance with her , dine with her , and chat with her .
1481 dance-refused `` And I refused them because I do n't know how to dance very well . ''
1482 dance-rummaging `` What of the girls that never get asked to dance because you 're too busy rummaging through your books ? ''
1483 danced-played Behind Vin 's group , the musicians played upon their stage , but the evening was growing late , and few people danced .
1484 danced-were Many were even chatting with one another while they danced .
1485 dancing-realized The beautiful couples dancing , the perfect atmosphere and music , the marvelous crystalline windows ... I do n't even realize when I 'm wearing perfume anymore , she realized with shock .
1486 dared-speak Kelsier did n't speak of it , he barely even dared consider it .
1487 dash-grabbed Just as she was spinning to dash away , however , rough hands grabbed her from behind .
1488 dashing-looked Kelsier was dashing , Breeze immaculate and lavish , but Dockson ... he simply looked natural in the outfit .
1489 deal-fluttered The air resistance fluttered her dress , and she felt like she was trying to pull a bale of cloth behind her , but her Allomancy was strong enough to deal with that .
1490 dealing-is However , this is n't much of a problem -- though it does mean that you 're going to have to be very careful when dealing with House Venture , Lord Renoux .
1491 dealing-love He 's been dealing with this issue longer than most , because they love the gays in New Jersey .
1492 dealt-looked Both looked apprehensive to be out in the mists , but they dealt with their fear .
1493 dealt-wore Like Laird , he wore gray robes , but he was very different from the stern , bureaucratic men Camon had dealt with before .
1494 decide-find Find some appropriate crews , but wait until we decide on a time before giving them the locations of the Soothing stations . ''
1495 decided-said They decided he had no choice because of cash-flow issues , advisers said .
1496 decided-shot He occasionally shot uncomfortable looks at the dirty floor and dusty stools , but then decided to remain standing .
1497 decided-took Instead , he said , ` she was on point , direct , strong , and spoke from the heart ' as she delivered lines , like ` the party of Lincoln has become the party of Trump , ' that delighted Mr. Boylan.Kate Gallego , another of the 713 Democratic superdelegates who have outsize power over the nomination , said she had decided to support Mrs. Clinton because of the way she took on Republicans in her speech .
1498 declaring-refocusing Throughout the 2008 campaign cycle , Obama the candidate was fond of declaring on the stump that Al Qaeda grew stronger because the Iraq war had caused the Bush administration to '' take our eye off the ball '' instead of '' refocusing our attention on the war that can be won in Afghanistan . ''
1499 declassified-requiring The first of those published was the 2013 intelligence court order to a Verizon subsidiary requiring it to turn over all its customers ' calling records.Although the Obama administration declassified the existence of the bulk phone records program , it has declined to confirm which other phone companies participated in it and which groups it could be used to search for.The letter does not make clear how often the N.S.A. has used the program to search for Iran or Iranian-linked terrorist organizations .
1500 declined-join He declined to work with the campaigns of Scott Walker and Marco Rubio but agreed to join the Bush foreign-policy team after Bill Simon , a former Wal-Mart chief executive and now the Bush campaign 's policy-team recruiter , asked him to come aboard as an informal outside adviser .
1501 declining-describing ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
1502 decorated-had The room was decorated with a sturdy wooden armoire , and even had a circular rug .
1503 decreases-overcoming Eventually , they slowed down income tax decreases , raised sales taxes and increased the cigarette tax by 50 cents a pack , among other measures.But overcoming the gridlock to reach that deal required long legislative sessions stretching into the early morning.Senator Les Donovan , the tax committee chairman , said that fragmentation had been the worst he had seen in his more than two decades in Topeka .
1504 deemed-headbanging And he said that his party had drifted rightward enough that someone like Ronald Reagan would have difficulty finding a receptive home in it.That assessment suggested one reason Bush is now deemed a centrist : The poles have moved.But much of his record in Florida is that of the ` headbanging conservative ' he claimed to be during a first , unsuccessful campaign for governor in 1994 .
1505 defeat-said `` The Garrison of Luthadel is strong , '' Kelsier said , `` but we can defeat it -- especially if we take the city walls quickly .
1506 defeated-dream `` Some may have begun to dream otherwise , lad , but the Lord Ruler ca n't be defeated .
1507 defend-have ` Our forces have no other option but to fight , to defend at whatever cost possible .
1508 defend-have ` On behalf of 26 million Texans , I want to thank New York for sending us reinforcements , ' Mr. Cruz said at the event , according to a video posted on YouTube.And Mr. Zeldin has taken votes that may prove challenging to defend in his moderate district , recently voting for a spending bill that cut spending for mass transit , and at one point opposing a measure to finance the Department of Homeland Security , because it did not block Mr. Obama 's latest round of executive orders on illegal immigration.Multiple Democrats have already entered the race against him .
1509 defended-distancing It had 921,000 streams being viewed at one time , when usage peaked at 9:45 p.m.For much of the year , Jeb Bush has sent conflicting signals about how he planned to deal with the legacy of his brother , former President George W. Bush - reaching for it in some cases , distancing himself in others.But on Thursday , the day after the second Republican presidential debate , in which he strongly defended his brother against Donald J. Trump , Mr. Bush highlighted that moment on his Twitter feed.Around noon , Mr. Bush sent out this remark , ` When it comes to my brother , there 's one thing I know for sure .
1510 defined-suggested ` Mr. O'Malley has declined to criticize Mrs. Clinton over her email use , but he has suggested that it is a legitimate issue.But he said the party was making a ` horrible mistake ' if the contest was ` defined by the latest questions of the day ' that ` Secretary Clinton and her lawyers can only answer . '
1511 deflected-tried The other Coinshot tried to spray Vin with coins , but she deflected them with ease .
1512 deflected-uncorking I do n't have time to talk about somebody else , ' Mr. Kasich said , adding that he was fully occupied , like Mr. Carson , with introducing himself to voters.Responding to a question from a voter about how he had similarly deflected the topic of Mr. Trump in a CNN interview , Mr. Kasich even avoided mentioning the unlikely Republican poll-leader by name.For a while , that is.He eventually gave in to temptation , after uncorking a metaphor about how his much-praised debate performance was akin to being an astronaut launched in a rocket ship .
1513 defund-touting ___ 6:05 p.m.New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is touting his anti-abortion rights record but stopping short of saying he 'd shut down the government to defund Planned Parenthood.Asked three times whether he would press to defund the women 's health organization even if it results in a government closure , Christie punted on the question.Christie says he 'd put it `` on the list '' of issues that Republicans should use to force a compromise from President Barack Obama , along with tax legislation.Christie has described the past government shutdown , which Republicans forced over the health care law , as a political misstep for the GOP .
1514 defund-touting ___ 6:05 p.m.New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is touting his anti-abortion rights record but stopping short of saying he 'd shut down the government to defund Planned Parenthood.Asked three times whether he would press to defund the women 's health organization even if it results in a government closure , Christie punted on the question.Christie says he 'd put it `` on the list '' of issues that Republicans should use to force a compromise from President Barack Obama , along with tax legislation.Christie has described the past government shutdown , which Republicans forced over the health care law , as a political misstep for the GOP .
1515 defunding-triggers ___ 6:10 p.m.Former Hewlett-Packard CEO Carly Fiorina says Republicans in Congress should stand fast on defunding Planned Parenthood even if it triggers a government shutdown.Fiorina spoke at the second Republican presidential debate .
1516 defy-signaling He was also signaling a suspicion of labels and boxes.We should be similarly wary of them , because we 've routinely seen leaders defy our assumptions .
1517 deliberating-shaping KABUL , Afghanistan - After suffering setbacks and heavy casualties at the hands of the Taliban in 2014 , Afghan security forces came into this year with what Afghan and Western officials acknowledge were relatively modest goals : hang on till the end of the fighting season without major collapses.But with months of heavy fighting still ahead , 2015 is already shaping up to be worse for the Afghan Army and the national police , even as President Obama is set to begin deliberating this year on whether to follow through with a complete withdrawal of the United States military assistance mission here in 2016 .
1518 deliver-meet Ms. Merkel is also expected to deliver remarks at the event , though it is unclear whether she will meet with him .
1519 delivering-took The approach took an odd tone at times , as he repeatedly called for more military action in places such as Syria , but did so while delivering cheeky one-liners .
1520 delivering-took ` They took aim at me , but they ended up damaging our entire democracy , ' she said at a Democratic dinner in Iowa last month , her voice breaking after delivering a fiery partisan speech .
1521 delivering-took The approach took an odd tone at times , as he repeatedly called for more military action in places such as Syria , but did so while delivering cheeky one-liners .
1522 delivering-took ` They took aim at me , but they ended up damaging our entire democracy , ' she said at a Democratic dinner in Iowa last month , her voice breaking after delivering a fiery partisan speech .
1523 delved-said The Spanish-language news media has also been more critical in its coverage of Mr. Trump 's positions on the issue , with nearly all of it negative in tone.José Díaz-Balart , the main anchor for Telemundo and MSNBC who takes a straight-news approach to his coverage and does not consider himself an advocate , nonetheless said that because of its viewership , Telemundo has delved deeper into the specifics of Mr. Trump 's immigration plan than many English-language outlets and has covered his candidacy with a sense of ` urgency . ''
1524 demanded-focus Moving demanded so much attention that she could barely even focus on Kelsier ahead of her in the mists .
1525 demonstrate-specializes The results demonstrate that not only do a majority of whites , 52 percent , agree , but that this agreement is heavily concentrated among conservative constituencies , including Tea Party supporters and white evangelicals.In 2013 , well before a Trump bid was visible , the polling company Latino Decisions , which specializes in analysis of the Hispanic electorate , developed a survey measure of ` openness to diversity . '
1526 demonstrated-take European opposition to immigration , and the strength of this opposition on the political right , was demonstrated in a Pew Research Center study of voters in seven countries - Italy , France , Britain , Spain , Poland , Greece and Germany -- that showed that voters on the right were 18 points more likely than voters on the left to agree that ` immigrants are a burden because they take jobs and social benefits .
1527 denounced-proved That has proved to be a delusion.And as Mark Moyar of the Foreign Policy Research Institute , a Philadelphia-based think tank , wrote earlier this month in The Wall Street Journal : `` Though President Obama denounced sequestration , his actions suggest that at the very least he was comfortable with its gutting of the defense budget .
1528 denying-keeps All of the keeps were beautiful , but there was no denying which one was the finest .
1529 depend-refers One place to start is his argument that because he 's a billionaire who does n't depend on contributions from others , he 's somehow superior because he 's immune from political influence.The casino magnate refers to his competitors who accept political donations as `` puppets '' who are `` totally controlled by special interests , lobbyists and donors . ''
1530 depicted-seen It depicted a strange shape -- something like a plant , though not one Vin had ever seen .
1531 deporting-suggests A website with Deez Nuts 's platform suggests a Libertarian tinge , including giving voting rights to citizens of American Samoa , but deporting illegal immigrants with ` the lone exception of being a minor . ''
1532 depositing-disappointed European Central Bank purchases would help raise the market value of those bonds and help restore confidence in the country 's banks.And Greeks who have withdrawn cash from their accounts might begin depositing money again and help the banking system return to normal.But economists and investors hoping for powerful action by the European Central Bank on Thursday may be disappointed .
1533 deride-did She did n't run into Shan Elariel often , thankfully -- but when they did meet , Shan took every occasion to deride , insult , and demean Vin .
1534 descended-directing Hundreds of law enforcement officers descended on the navy yard on Thursday , but they found no evidence that there had been any shooting.The Islamic State , also known as ISIS or ISIL , has shown success at inspiring rather than actually directing well-planned attacks - and officials blamed the militant organization for inspiring last week 's bloody strikes in France and Tunisia , and possibly in Kuwait .
1535 describe-loses The collective hope is that Mr. Walker can avoid what Mr. Goeas and other advisers describe as Sarah Palin 's problem - becoming a candidate who is initially popular among Republicans , like the 2008 vice-presidential nominee , but loses luster because of missteps as the campaign goes on.Mr .
1536 describe-relies Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
1537 describe-tries ` Mr. Sánchez says that he tries to focus on the positive in presidential politics , but he , too , at times has used harsh language to describe Mr. Trump , according to translations of his show provided by his executive producer . '
1538 described-made ` He described a fear that ` it is not a matter of if ' but when another ` attempt is made on American soil . '
1539 described-released They have since described her remarks to reporters , but released excerpts from the video for the first time this week .
1540 describing-opened ` The power of the American people when we rise up and stand for liberty knows no bounds , ' Mr. Cruz said , before asking those in attendance to ` break a rule ' and text the word ` Constitution ' to his campaign.With his two daughters and wife , Heidi , in attendance , Mr. Cruz opened his speech by providing a biography not of himself , but of his parents , and describing his connection to his faith.Mr .
1541 deserted-maintain They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1542 deserve-suspected Now he thinks I 'm of a Great House -- of course , if he had n't suspected that because of the mistcloak , then he does n't deserve his reputation .
1543 desire-had Kelsier had even resisted Vin 's desire to come .
1544 desired-escalating Given the recent polls that show escalating public support for same-sex marriage , it will be interesting to see what version of that language makes it into next year 's platform.It 's hardly a favor to a Supreme Court nominee for a president even to suggest a desired quality beyond intellectual brilliance and fidelity to ` the law .
1545 destroy-does `` As for Elend , he does n't even know that I 'm skaa -- and it 's my job to try and destroy his family .
1546 destroy-hint They hint , however , that I will have the power to destroy it as well .
1547 destroy-hint They hint , however , that I will have the power to destroy it as well .
1548 destroy-hint They hint , however , that I will have the power to destroy it as well .
1549 destroy-hint They hint , however , that I will have the power to destroy it as well .
1550 destroyed-forbids The Steel Ministry forbids the worship of anyone but the Lord Ruler , and the Inquisitors have quite diligently destroyed hundreds of religions .
1551 detailing-spent Staff members for Senator Ted Cruz , Republican of Texas , spent $ 1,168.84 on the service , far more than Mrs. Clinton 's team $ 219.32 , but less than Mr. Bush 's $ 1,396.40 , according to filings made public over the last 24 hours detailing campaign spending from April through June.The winner of the 2016 Uber Primary , so far : Mr. Paul .
1552 detect-eyed She eyed the impostor , but -- as always -- was unable to detect a flaw in his bearing .
1553 detect-inspired And most of the Islamic State-inspired plots so far have been unsophisticated but increasingly difficult for the authorities to detect in advance.American officials say this is not a black-and-white debate between those who worry more about Al Qaeda as the main threat to the homeland and those who say it is the Islamic State .
1554 detected-inspired ` Independent analysts who follow jihadist statements on the Internet said they have not detected any significant increase in online comments - what the authorities called ` chatter ' - but acknowledged that lone attackers inspired by ISIS leaders and propaganda could go undetected .
1555 determined-find Oddly , I find myself even more determined because of his hatred .
1556 determined-losing Romaine , who has advised Mr. Zeldin since his failed House race in 2008 , said Mr. Zeldin had been determined to make it to Washington , even after his first , losing campaign .
1557 determined-were The Nelazan were not an advanced people , but they were quite determined .
1558 devote-moving Mr. Biden described the recent death of his son Beau as an ` open wound ' that had not begun to heal , and was grappling with whether he could devote his full energy to a campaign.But at the same time , Mr. Biden and those who support him are moving to put the pieces into place for a possible candidacy .
1559 devoted-gore A spokeswoman for Mr. Gore declined to comment , but Democrats close to him said he was devoted to fighting climate change .
1560 devotes-press Instead , she devotes her town-hall-style events and speeches to policy areas like the economy , the environment and her new college affordability plan.But as Mr. Bush made clear on Tuesday , Republicans will press the issue with Mrs. Clinton on foreign policy and over the Obama administration 's approach - whether over the spread of the Islamic State , the ` reset ' of relations with Russia or the nuclear deal with Iran .
1561 dictates-force The Lord Ruler makes dictates , and the Ministry polices his followers , but the nobility are the ones who actually force the skaa to work .
1562 did-discovering Why , I 'm discovering things about my culture that even I did not know ! ''
1563 did-distort It did n't even waver or distort .
1564 did-enhance Perhaps he could enhance his Feruchemy by burning the storages , but how did he get so strong at Allomancy ? ''
1565 did-enrich This plan of his is insane , and I 'm sure he 's partially doing it just so he can enrich himself , but ... well , he did n't have to go to the rebellion .
1566 did-expected He obviously expected her to say something , but she never did .
1567 did-expected It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
1568 did-fight You did n't even fight him .
1569 did-happen She did n't want to think poorly of Kelsier , but she just did n't see how it was all going to happen .
1570 did-hid The mist empowered , protected , and hid ... even when she did n't really want it to do any of the three .
1571 did-jutted Many of the limbs , in fact , did n't even look functional -- they jutted from the creature 's flesh in a twisted , unnatural fashion .
1572 did-jutted She did n't have the will to look , but the agony from her torso told her that her leg jutted from beneath her body , broken at an awkward angle .
1573 did-kill I did n't even know they were going to kill the girl afterward , Valette .
1574 did-knew Then ... something within her -- something she knew of but did n't understand -- gave her strength .
1575 did-knew Vin did n't even feel that she knew him very well , yet Kelsier said that the boy had spent hours watching over her during her coma .
1576 did-know Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1577 did-know There was no way the man would be able to recognize her -- he did n't even know she existed .
1578 did-know I did n't even know you were here . ''
1579 did-know I did n't even know they were going to kill the girl afterward , Valette .
1580 did-know Did she even really know herself ?
1581 did-know Redd did n't even know about the infiltration until that night , when we went and got him .
1582 did-know I do n't know if your ability to see through copperclouds explains everything , but ... well , given the choice , I 'd rather believe that Mare did n't betray me . ''
1583 did-know His body ached from dozens of bruises and cuts , and he did n't even know when his cloak had ripped free .
1584 did-know Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1585 did-know There was no way the man would be able to recognize her -- he did n't even know she existed .
1586 did-know I did n't even know you were here . ''
1587 did-know I did n't even know they were going to kill the girl afterward , Valette .
1588 did-know Did she even really know herself ?
1589 did-know Redd did n't even know about the infiltration until that night , when we went and got him .
1590 did-know I do n't know if your ability to see through copperclouds explains everything , but ... well , given the choice , I 'd rather believe that Mare did n't betray me . ''
1591 did-know His body ached from dozens of bruises and cuts , and he did n't even know when his cloak had ripped free .
1592 did-leapt Two spears through the chest did n't even bother him , Vin thought as she leapt the last bit of distance up to the top of the dais .
1593 did-let The blue lines were thin and weak -- they did n't do well penetrating wood -- but they were just strong enough to let Kelsier locate the belt latch of a person out in the hallway , moving quickly away from the door on silent feet .
1594 did-let She did , however , pick at the food -- her instincts would n't let her pass up a free meal , even if it was prepared by unfamiliar hands .
1595 did-let Resisting the Lord Ruler 's Pushing on their emotions did n't seem like half as much a struggle for Kelsier anymore , though Vin had let her zinc lapse .
1596 did-let I actually did -- but you let me fall .
1597 did-let ` In an interview on ` Fox & Friends ' a few days after Mr. Stone 's departure from the campaign , Mr. Trump said , ` Roger Stone is a nice guy , but I let him go because I really was n't using him and he liked to get a lot of publicity for himself , which I did n't want .
1598 did-maintain Kelsier did n't see it as a danger to the job , but it did mean that Vin had to maintain her persona whenever possible .
1599 did-nodded Dockson nodded in agreement , but Vin did n't taste her own drink .
1600 did-nodded Kelsier nodded , tying on the belt -- it had no buckle , but it did contain two small sheaths .
1601 did-nodded Vin nodded , but Kelsier did n't turn away from her .
1602 did-oblige Hendrix was happy to oblige , as both a Republican and a friend of the owner , but he did n't know Mr. Cruz too well .
1603 did-opened Sometimes he had to move to the right or left until the ceiling opened up , but it always did .
1604 did-paid ` The document is undergirded by two major presidential initiatives that have virtually no chance in Congress : large tax increases on multinational corporations and the rich , and a comprehensive immigration law that would lift the economy with millions of newly legalized , taxpaying workers.The proceeds of those initiatives would pay for free community college , more generous child care subsidies and education tax credits , paid sick leave , expanded unemployment benefits , and tax credits for two-earner middle-class couples , among other offerings.The White House even did away with the usual plain blue budget document cover for a gritty black-and-white photo of the Tappan Zee Bridge in New York , making vivid the president 's emphasis on ' a 21st-century infrastructure that creates jobs for thousands of construction workers and engineers , connects hard-working Americans to their jobs , and makes it easier for businesses to transport goods , ' as Mr. Obama wrote in the opening budget message.The push reflects the degree to which Mr. Obama emerged from last year 's midterm election losses determined to reinforce - rather than scale back - his belief that the government should play a fundamental role in spreading economic prosperity .
1605 did-paid ` In some ways , the United States paid the lowest price for maintenance of sanctions , because we did n't do business with Iran in the first place .
1606 did-pause He did n't even pause to look up at her .
1607 did-promised He always promised that he would , but in the end , he did n't .
1608 did-pull Kell did it through a beheading , but it 's easier to just pull out the middle spike . ''
1609 did-raise He did , however , raise a hand to gesture .
1610 did-ranked `` I did n't have trouble because I 'm new and I 'm low-ranked .
1611 did-remained It remained powerful through the sheer force of fortune ; though it participated in some contracts , it did n't rely on them like other houses .
1612 did-remained Kelsier remained quiet as they traveled toward Marsh 's new Soothing station , though he did walk with a bit more of a spring in his step .
1613 did-remained One other Inquisitor remained back as well , though Vin did n't know why .
1614 did-reminding She did it with a calm , aristocratic manner , even her bearing reminding Vin just how inferior she was .
1615 did-saw They saw the neckline , the pretty dress and the makeup , but they did n't see her .
1616 did-say He obviously expected her to say something , but she never did .
1617 did-say `` What did you even say ? ''
1618 did-sazed She did , fortunately , recognize some of the scenes -- mostly because of Sazed 's teachings .
1619 did-sazed Sazed , however , did n't seem offended -- he never seemed to get angry about anything .
1620 did-sazed She 's the one who first introduced me to Sazed , though I did n't use him in my crew at the time .
1621 did-seem He did n't walk with the same careful air of despondence that Vin had cultivated ; he did n't even seem to care that he stood out from other skaa .
1622 did-seem He did n't walk with the same careful air of despondence that Vin had cultivated ; he did n't even seem to care that he stood out from other skaa .
1623 did-seem Soon , money did n't even seem to matter to him .
1624 did-seem They do , and they did under decades-old Supreme Court precedent before Citizens United , although many of the decision 's critics do n't seem to realize that fact .
1625 did-shot Vin shot a glance at Elend , but he did n't look up from his book .
1626 did-shot ` You wanted it , and you did n't get it because I was opposed , ' Mr. Bush shot back .
1627 did-shrugged Elend shrugged , though this comment did make him a little bit nervous .
1628 did-smiled He smiled despite the grief he felt at the deaths of his men ; he smiled because that was what he did .
1629 did-smiled He smiled despite the grief he felt at the deaths of his men ; he smiled because that was what he did .
1630 did-turned The fact that she was sent to die hints that maybe she really did n't betray me , but ... '' He turned toward Vin .
1631 did-turned He turned the cup of brandy in his fingers , but did n't drink much .
1632 did-unified His comments about Senator John McCain 's status as a war hero prompted unified outrage across the party , but did little if any damage .
1633 did-waited Vin waited for a moment , but he did n't plummet back down to his doom .
1634 did-waited Vin waited for an answer , but he did n't ever give one .
1635 did-walked If he and Mare had walked away before that job ... But , well , they did n't .
1636 did-was Hendrix was happy to oblige , as both a Republican and a friend of the owner , but he did n't know Mr. Cruz too well .
1637 did-was I was happy to have done it for him , but I did n't start out to do it that way , ' Mr. Hendrix said .
1638 did-was Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows , even those on which he did not appear.Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate - Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio - were both asked about Mr. Trump.Mr .
1639 did-was The reason they did was because my administration , our diplomats , and oftentimes me personally , were able to persuade them that the only way to resolve this nuclear problem was to make these sanctions bite .
1640 did-was `` But the remark , at least on its surface , was about the courage it takes for students to go back to community college after being out for years.Biden later mingled with the types of donors he 'd need to challenge Clinton for the nomination.At the fundraiser , Biden spoke about the need to elect more Democrats to the Senate but did not address his 2016 plans , according to two donors who attended the event .
1641 did-was She reiterated the apology in a late-night note to voters on Facebook.Clinton 's late-arriving mea culpa came just 24 hours after she insisted in an interview with The Associated Press she did n't need to apologize because `` what I did was allowed . ''
1642 did-was It was n't much of a reason for a beating -- but , then , he did n't need much of a reason to give the workers a beating .
1643 did-was Mennis was n't the first to arrive at the edge of the short hilltop plateau , but the group made way for him when he did .
1644 did-was `` The man did call us Mistings , Vin -- though the appellation was a bit hasty , since neither Dox nor I are technically Mistings .
1645 did-was The truth was , however , that she did n't really know what Allomancy was .
1646 did-was Perhaps he did n't even have a destination , and was just accustoming her to the mists .
1647 did-was The stance was obviously intended to be respectful , but his looming posture did n't help her mood any .
1648 did-was A nobleman pedestrian was not an irregular sight , especially in the commercial district , where more fortunate skaa and less fortunate noblemen mixed on the streets -- though each group did its best to ignore the other .
1649 did-was It was also rimmed by beggars , but no fine fountain splashed the center of this intersection , nor did the corners contain wells to draw traffic .
1650 did-was Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1651 did-was Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1652 did-was The long sleeves did n't help either , though the silky material was soft against her skin .
1653 did-was Jumping was faster than walking , but there did n't seem much point to it in the empty wilderness .
1654 did-was The sun was close to setting ; soon , the mists would come -- though , as usual , Sazed would have guards posted to make certain that she did n't go on any unauthorized Allomantic romps .
1655 did-was He did feel that there was a tension rising between the houses ; though the balls continued , there were more and more absences as people did n't attend parties thrown by their political rivals .
1656 did-was Our table was attended by Lord Elend Venture for most of the evening , though Mistress Vin did find a way to make his attentions less threatening to the court . ''
1657 did-was She did it with a calm , aristocratic manner , even her bearing reminding Vin just how inferior she was .
1658 did-was The boy was at least competent -- he blocked the blows , but he revealed a great deal about his abilities as he did so .
1659 did-was It was made of soft lace , but there did n't seem to be anything unusual about it .
1660 did-was It was probably unintentional , but that did n't make it any less frustrating .
1661 did-was I was afraid , so I acted like a proper noblewoman -- but you seemed disappointed when I did n't have more to say . ''
1662 did-was `` I did n't know him for very long , but ... well , I can promise you this , Elend : His love was as strong as that of any nobleman .
1663 did-was Not as she did in regular light -- everything was muted -- but it was sight nonetheless .
1664 did-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1665 did-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1666 did-was Kelsier still had n't been able to discover which house was behind the murders , but the Luthadel nobility did n't seem to care who the culprit was .
1667 did-was She could see he was still troubled , but he did turn back to their walk , letting her gently take his arm again as they strolled .
1668 did-was She was cold , but she did n't care .
1669 did-was She did n't want to think poorly of Kelsier , but she just did n't see how it was all going to happen .
1670 did-was The glass was colored , though it did n't depict any specific scene .
1671 did-was The Greek debt crisis was mentioned often , though the potential ripple effects for the United States economy appear much weaker than they did a few years ago when Greece 's position in the eurozone was first at risk .
1672 did-was ` You wanted it , and you did n't get it because I was opposed , ' Mr. Bush shot back .
1673 did-was ` In an interview with The Associated Press during a Labor Day campaign swing through Iowa , Mrs. Clinton said on Monday that she did not need to apologize for using a private email account and server while at the State Department because ` what I did was allowed .
1674 did-was Mr. Biden , in contrast , stressed the success of the bill 's community policing measures , which he said had achieved their goals before funding was cut.And in an interview with Time magazine in February 2014 , he said , ' I am not only the guy who did the crime bill and the drug czar , but I 'm also the guy who spent years when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee trying to change drug policy relative to cocaine , for example , crack and powder .
1675 did-was Hendrix was happy to oblige , as both a Republican and a friend of the owner , but he did n't know Mr. Cruz too well .
1676 did-was I was happy to have done it for him , but I did n't start out to do it that way , ' Mr. Hendrix said .
1677 did-was Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows , even those on which he did not appear.Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate - Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio - were both asked about Mr. Trump.Mr .
1678 did-was The reason they did was because my administration , our diplomats , and oftentimes me personally , were able to persuade them that the only way to resolve this nuclear problem was to make these sanctions bite .
1679 did-was `` But the remark , at least on its surface , was about the courage it takes for students to go back to community college after being out for years.Biden later mingled with the types of donors he 'd need to challenge Clinton for the nomination.At the fundraiser , Biden spoke about the need to elect more Democrats to the Senate but did not address his 2016 plans , according to two donors who attended the event .
1680 did-was She reiterated the apology in a late-night note to voters on Facebook.Clinton 's late-arriving mea culpa came just 24 hours after she insisted in an interview with The Associated Press she did n't need to apologize because `` what I did was allowed . ''
1681 did-was It was n't much of a reason for a beating -- but , then , he did n't need much of a reason to give the workers a beating .
1682 did-was Mennis was n't the first to arrive at the edge of the short hilltop plateau , but the group made way for him when he did .
1683 did-was `` The man did call us Mistings , Vin -- though the appellation was a bit hasty , since neither Dox nor I are technically Mistings .
1684 did-was The truth was , however , that she did n't really know what Allomancy was .
1685 did-was Perhaps he did n't even have a destination , and was just accustoming her to the mists .
1686 did-was The stance was obviously intended to be respectful , but his looming posture did n't help her mood any .
1687 did-was A nobleman pedestrian was not an irregular sight , especially in the commercial district , where more fortunate skaa and less fortunate noblemen mixed on the streets -- though each group did its best to ignore the other .
1688 did-was It was also rimmed by beggars , but no fine fountain splashed the center of this intersection , nor did the corners contain wells to draw traffic .
1689 did-was Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1690 did-was Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1691 did-was The long sleeves did n't help either , though the silky material was soft against her skin .
1692 did-was Jumping was faster than walking , but there did n't seem much point to it in the empty wilderness .
1693 did-was The sun was close to setting ; soon , the mists would come -- though , as usual , Sazed would have guards posted to make certain that she did n't go on any unauthorized Allomantic romps .
1694 did-was He did feel that there was a tension rising between the houses ; though the balls continued , there were more and more absences as people did n't attend parties thrown by their political rivals .
1695 did-was Our table was attended by Lord Elend Venture for most of the evening , though Mistress Vin did find a way to make his attentions less threatening to the court . ''
1696 did-was She did it with a calm , aristocratic manner , even her bearing reminding Vin just how inferior she was .
1697 did-was The boy was at least competent -- he blocked the blows , but he revealed a great deal about his abilities as he did so .
1698 did-was It was made of soft lace , but there did n't seem to be anything unusual about it .
1699 did-was It was probably unintentional , but that did n't make it any less frustrating .
1700 did-was I was afraid , so I acted like a proper noblewoman -- but you seemed disappointed when I did n't have more to say . ''
1701 did-was `` I did n't know him for very long , but ... well , I can promise you this , Elend : His love was as strong as that of any nobleman .
1702 did-was Not as she did in regular light -- everything was muted -- but it was sight nonetheless .
1703 did-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1704 did-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1705 did-was Kelsier still had n't been able to discover which house was behind the murders , but the Luthadel nobility did n't seem to care who the culprit was .
1706 did-was She could see he was still troubled , but he did turn back to their walk , letting her gently take his arm again as they strolled .
1707 did-was She was cold , but she did n't care .
1708 did-was She did n't want to think poorly of Kelsier , but she just did n't see how it was all going to happen .
1709 did-was The glass was colored , though it did n't depict any specific scene .
1710 did-was The Greek debt crisis was mentioned often , though the potential ripple effects for the United States economy appear much weaker than they did a few years ago when Greece 's position in the eurozone was first at risk .
1711 did-was ` You wanted it , and you did n't get it because I was opposed , ' Mr. Bush shot back .
1712 did-was ` In an interview with The Associated Press during a Labor Day campaign swing through Iowa , Mrs. Clinton said on Monday that she did not need to apologize for using a private email account and server while at the State Department because ` what I did was allowed .
1713 did-was Mr. Biden , in contrast , stressed the success of the bill 's community policing measures , which he said had achieved their goals before funding was cut.And in an interview with Time magazine in February 2014 , he said , ' I am not only the guy who did the crime bill and the drug czar , but I 'm also the guy who spent years when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee trying to change drug policy relative to cocaine , for example , crack and powder .
1714 did-was Hendrix was happy to oblige , as both a Republican and a friend of the owner , but he did n't know Mr. Cruz too well .
1715 did-was I was happy to have done it for him , but I did n't start out to do it that way , ' Mr. Hendrix said .
1716 did-was Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows , even those on which he did not appear.Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate - Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio - were both asked about Mr. Trump.Mr .
1717 did-was The reason they did was because my administration , our diplomats , and oftentimes me personally , were able to persuade them that the only way to resolve this nuclear problem was to make these sanctions bite .
1718 did-was `` But the remark , at least on its surface , was about the courage it takes for students to go back to community college after being out for years.Biden later mingled with the types of donors he 'd need to challenge Clinton for the nomination.At the fundraiser , Biden spoke about the need to elect more Democrats to the Senate but did not address his 2016 plans , according to two donors who attended the event .
1719 did-was She reiterated the apology in a late-night note to voters on Facebook.Clinton 's late-arriving mea culpa came just 24 hours after she insisted in an interview with The Associated Press she did n't need to apologize because `` what I did was allowed . ''
1720 did-was It was n't much of a reason for a beating -- but , then , he did n't need much of a reason to give the workers a beating .
1721 did-was Mennis was n't the first to arrive at the edge of the short hilltop plateau , but the group made way for him when he did .
1722 did-was `` The man did call us Mistings , Vin -- though the appellation was a bit hasty , since neither Dox nor I are technically Mistings .
1723 did-was The truth was , however , that she did n't really know what Allomancy was .
1724 did-was Perhaps he did n't even have a destination , and was just accustoming her to the mists .
1725 did-was The stance was obviously intended to be respectful , but his looming posture did n't help her mood any .
1726 did-was A nobleman pedestrian was not an irregular sight , especially in the commercial district , where more fortunate skaa and less fortunate noblemen mixed on the streets -- though each group did its best to ignore the other .
1727 did-was It was also rimmed by beggars , but no fine fountain splashed the center of this intersection , nor did the corners contain wells to draw traffic .
1728 did-was Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1729 did-was Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1730 did-was The long sleeves did n't help either , though the silky material was soft against her skin .
1731 did-was Jumping was faster than walking , but there did n't seem much point to it in the empty wilderness .
1732 did-was The sun was close to setting ; soon , the mists would come -- though , as usual , Sazed would have guards posted to make certain that she did n't go on any unauthorized Allomantic romps .
1733 did-was He did feel that there was a tension rising between the houses ; though the balls continued , there were more and more absences as people did n't attend parties thrown by their political rivals .
1734 did-was Our table was attended by Lord Elend Venture for most of the evening , though Mistress Vin did find a way to make his attentions less threatening to the court . ''
1735 did-was She did it with a calm , aristocratic manner , even her bearing reminding Vin just how inferior she was .
1736 did-was The boy was at least competent -- he blocked the blows , but he revealed a great deal about his abilities as he did so .
1737 did-was It was made of soft lace , but there did n't seem to be anything unusual about it .
1738 did-was It was probably unintentional , but that did n't make it any less frustrating .
1739 did-was I was afraid , so I acted like a proper noblewoman -- but you seemed disappointed when I did n't have more to say . ''
1740 did-was `` I did n't know him for very long , but ... well , I can promise you this , Elend : His love was as strong as that of any nobleman .
1741 did-was Not as she did in regular light -- everything was muted -- but it was sight nonetheless .
1742 did-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1743 did-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1744 did-was Kelsier still had n't been able to discover which house was behind the murders , but the Luthadel nobility did n't seem to care who the culprit was .
1745 did-was She could see he was still troubled , but he did turn back to their walk , letting her gently take his arm again as they strolled .
1746 did-was She was cold , but she did n't care .
1747 did-was She did n't want to think poorly of Kelsier , but she just did n't see how it was all going to happen .
1748 did-was The glass was colored , though it did n't depict any specific scene .
1749 did-was The Greek debt crisis was mentioned often , though the potential ripple effects for the United States economy appear much weaker than they did a few years ago when Greece 's position in the eurozone was first at risk .
1750 did-was ` You wanted it , and you did n't get it because I was opposed , ' Mr. Bush shot back .
1751 did-was ` In an interview with The Associated Press during a Labor Day campaign swing through Iowa , Mrs. Clinton said on Monday that she did not need to apologize for using a private email account and server while at the State Department because ` what I did was allowed .
1752 did-was Mr. Biden , in contrast , stressed the success of the bill 's community policing measures , which he said had achieved their goals before funding was cut.And in an interview with Time magazine in February 2014 , he said , ' I am not only the guy who did the crime bill and the drug czar , but I 'm also the guy who spent years when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee trying to change drug policy relative to cocaine , for example , crack and powder .
1753 did-was Hendrix was happy to oblige , as both a Republican and a friend of the owner , but he did n't know Mr. Cruz too well .
1754 did-was I was happy to have done it for him , but I did n't start out to do it that way , ' Mr. Hendrix said .
1755 did-was Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows , even those on which he did not appear.Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate - Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio - were both asked about Mr. Trump.Mr .
1756 did-was The reason they did was because my administration , our diplomats , and oftentimes me personally , were able to persuade them that the only way to resolve this nuclear problem was to make these sanctions bite .
1757 did-was `` But the remark , at least on its surface , was about the courage it takes for students to go back to community college after being out for years.Biden later mingled with the types of donors he 'd need to challenge Clinton for the nomination.At the fundraiser , Biden spoke about the need to elect more Democrats to the Senate but did not address his 2016 plans , according to two donors who attended the event .
1758 did-was She reiterated the apology in a late-night note to voters on Facebook.Clinton 's late-arriving mea culpa came just 24 hours after she insisted in an interview with The Associated Press she did n't need to apologize because `` what I did was allowed . ''
1759 did-was It was n't much of a reason for a beating -- but , then , he did n't need much of a reason to give the workers a beating .
1760 did-was Mennis was n't the first to arrive at the edge of the short hilltop plateau , but the group made way for him when he did .
1761 did-was `` The man did call us Mistings , Vin -- though the appellation was a bit hasty , since neither Dox nor I are technically Mistings .
1762 did-was The truth was , however , that she did n't really know what Allomancy was .
1763 did-was Perhaps he did n't even have a destination , and was just accustoming her to the mists .
1764 did-was The stance was obviously intended to be respectful , but his looming posture did n't help her mood any .
1765 did-was A nobleman pedestrian was not an irregular sight , especially in the commercial district , where more fortunate skaa and less fortunate noblemen mixed on the streets -- though each group did its best to ignore the other .
1766 did-was It was also rimmed by beggars , but no fine fountain splashed the center of this intersection , nor did the corners contain wells to draw traffic .
1767 did-was Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1768 did-was Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1769 did-was The long sleeves did n't help either , though the silky material was soft against her skin .
1770 did-was Jumping was faster than walking , but there did n't seem much point to it in the empty wilderness .
1771 did-was The sun was close to setting ; soon , the mists would come -- though , as usual , Sazed would have guards posted to make certain that she did n't go on any unauthorized Allomantic romps .
1772 did-was He did feel that there was a tension rising between the houses ; though the balls continued , there were more and more absences as people did n't attend parties thrown by their political rivals .
1773 did-was Our table was attended by Lord Elend Venture for most of the evening , though Mistress Vin did find a way to make his attentions less threatening to the court . ''
1774 did-was She did it with a calm , aristocratic manner , even her bearing reminding Vin just how inferior she was .
1775 did-was The boy was at least competent -- he blocked the blows , but he revealed a great deal about his abilities as he did so .
1776 did-was It was made of soft lace , but there did n't seem to be anything unusual about it .
1777 did-was It was probably unintentional , but that did n't make it any less frustrating .
1778 did-was I was afraid , so I acted like a proper noblewoman -- but you seemed disappointed when I did n't have more to say . ''
1779 did-was `` I did n't know him for very long , but ... well , I can promise you this , Elend : His love was as strong as that of any nobleman .
1780 did-was Not as she did in regular light -- everything was muted -- but it was sight nonetheless .
1781 did-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1782 did-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1783 did-was Kelsier still had n't been able to discover which house was behind the murders , but the Luthadel nobility did n't seem to care who the culprit was .
1784 did-was She could see he was still troubled , but he did turn back to their walk , letting her gently take his arm again as they strolled .
1785 did-was She was cold , but she did n't care .
1786 did-was She did n't want to think poorly of Kelsier , but she just did n't see how it was all going to happen .
1787 did-was The glass was colored , though it did n't depict any specific scene .
1788 did-was The Greek debt crisis was mentioned often , though the potential ripple effects for the United States economy appear much weaker than they did a few years ago when Greece 's position in the eurozone was first at risk .
1789 did-was ` You wanted it , and you did n't get it because I was opposed , ' Mr. Bush shot back .
1790 did-was ` In an interview with The Associated Press during a Labor Day campaign swing through Iowa , Mrs. Clinton said on Monday that she did not need to apologize for using a private email account and server while at the State Department because ` what I did was allowed .
1791 did-was Mr. Biden , in contrast , stressed the success of the bill 's community policing measures , which he said had achieved their goals before funding was cut.And in an interview with Time magazine in February 2014 , he said , ' I am not only the guy who did the crime bill and the drug czar , but I 'm also the guy who spent years when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee trying to change drug policy relative to cocaine , for example , crack and powder .
1792 did-was Hendrix was happy to oblige , as both a Republican and a friend of the owner , but he did n't know Mr. Cruz too well .
1793 did-was I was happy to have done it for him , but I did n't start out to do it that way , ' Mr. Hendrix said .
1794 did-was Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows , even those on which he did not appear.Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate - Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio - were both asked about Mr. Trump.Mr .
1795 did-was The reason they did was because my administration , our diplomats , and oftentimes me personally , were able to persuade them that the only way to resolve this nuclear problem was to make these sanctions bite .
1796 did-was `` But the remark , at least on its surface , was about the courage it takes for students to go back to community college after being out for years.Biden later mingled with the types of donors he 'd need to challenge Clinton for the nomination.At the fundraiser , Biden spoke about the need to elect more Democrats to the Senate but did not address his 2016 plans , according to two donors who attended the event .
1797 did-was She reiterated the apology in a late-night note to voters on Facebook.Clinton 's late-arriving mea culpa came just 24 hours after she insisted in an interview with The Associated Press she did n't need to apologize because `` what I did was allowed . ''
1798 did-was It was n't much of a reason for a beating -- but , then , he did n't need much of a reason to give the workers a beating .
1799 did-was Mennis was n't the first to arrive at the edge of the short hilltop plateau , but the group made way for him when he did .
1800 did-was `` The man did call us Mistings , Vin -- though the appellation was a bit hasty , since neither Dox nor I are technically Mistings .
1801 did-was The truth was , however , that she did n't really know what Allomancy was .
1802 did-was Perhaps he did n't even have a destination , and was just accustoming her to the mists .
1803 did-was The stance was obviously intended to be respectful , but his looming posture did n't help her mood any .
1804 did-was A nobleman pedestrian was not an irregular sight , especially in the commercial district , where more fortunate skaa and less fortunate noblemen mixed on the streets -- though each group did its best to ignore the other .
1805 did-was It was also rimmed by beggars , but no fine fountain splashed the center of this intersection , nor did the corners contain wells to draw traffic .
1806 did-was Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1807 did-was Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1808 did-was The long sleeves did n't help either , though the silky material was soft against her skin .
1809 did-was Jumping was faster than walking , but there did n't seem much point to it in the empty wilderness .
1810 did-was The sun was close to setting ; soon , the mists would come -- though , as usual , Sazed would have guards posted to make certain that she did n't go on any unauthorized Allomantic romps .
1811 did-was He did feel that there was a tension rising between the houses ; though the balls continued , there were more and more absences as people did n't attend parties thrown by their political rivals .
1812 did-was Our table was attended by Lord Elend Venture for most of the evening , though Mistress Vin did find a way to make his attentions less threatening to the court . ''
1813 did-was She did it with a calm , aristocratic manner , even her bearing reminding Vin just how inferior she was .
1814 did-was The boy was at least competent -- he blocked the blows , but he revealed a great deal about his abilities as he did so .
1815 did-was It was made of soft lace , but there did n't seem to be anything unusual about it .
1816 did-was It was probably unintentional , but that did n't make it any less frustrating .
1817 did-was I was afraid , so I acted like a proper noblewoman -- but you seemed disappointed when I did n't have more to say . ''
1818 did-was `` I did n't know him for very long , but ... well , I can promise you this , Elend : His love was as strong as that of any nobleman .
1819 did-was Not as she did in regular light -- everything was muted -- but it was sight nonetheless .
1820 did-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1821 did-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1822 did-was Kelsier still had n't been able to discover which house was behind the murders , but the Luthadel nobility did n't seem to care who the culprit was .
1823 did-was She could see he was still troubled , but he did turn back to their walk , letting her gently take his arm again as they strolled .
1824 did-was She was cold , but she did n't care .
1825 did-was She did n't want to think poorly of Kelsier , but she just did n't see how it was all going to happen .
1826 did-was The glass was colored , though it did n't depict any specific scene .
1827 did-was The Greek debt crisis was mentioned often , though the potential ripple effects for the United States economy appear much weaker than they did a few years ago when Greece 's position in the eurozone was first at risk .
1828 did-was ` You wanted it , and you did n't get it because I was opposed , ' Mr. Bush shot back .
1829 did-was ` In an interview with The Associated Press during a Labor Day campaign swing through Iowa , Mrs. Clinton said on Monday that she did not need to apologize for using a private email account and server while at the State Department because ` what I did was allowed .
1830 did-was Mr. Biden , in contrast , stressed the success of the bill 's community policing measures , which he said had achieved their goals before funding was cut.And in an interview with Time magazine in February 2014 , he said , ' I am not only the guy who did the crime bill and the drug czar , but I 'm also the guy who spent years when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee trying to change drug policy relative to cocaine , for example , crack and powder .
1831 did-was Hendrix was happy to oblige , as both a Republican and a friend of the owner , but he did n't know Mr. Cruz too well .
1832 did-was I was happy to have done it for him , but I did n't start out to do it that way , ' Mr. Hendrix said .
1833 did-was Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows , even those on which he did not appear.Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate - Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio - were both asked about Mr. Trump.Mr .
1834 did-was The reason they did was because my administration , our diplomats , and oftentimes me personally , were able to persuade them that the only way to resolve this nuclear problem was to make these sanctions bite .
1835 did-was `` But the remark , at least on its surface , was about the courage it takes for students to go back to community college after being out for years.Biden later mingled with the types of donors he 'd need to challenge Clinton for the nomination.At the fundraiser , Biden spoke about the need to elect more Democrats to the Senate but did not address his 2016 plans , according to two donors who attended the event .
1836 did-was She reiterated the apology in a late-night note to voters on Facebook.Clinton 's late-arriving mea culpa came just 24 hours after she insisted in an interview with The Associated Press she did n't need to apologize because `` what I did was allowed . ''
1837 did-was It was n't much of a reason for a beating -- but , then , he did n't need much of a reason to give the workers a beating .
1838 did-was Mennis was n't the first to arrive at the edge of the short hilltop plateau , but the group made way for him when he did .
1839 did-was `` The man did call us Mistings , Vin -- though the appellation was a bit hasty , since neither Dox nor I are technically Mistings .
1840 did-was The truth was , however , that she did n't really know what Allomancy was .
1841 did-was Perhaps he did n't even have a destination , and was just accustoming her to the mists .
1842 did-was The stance was obviously intended to be respectful , but his looming posture did n't help her mood any .
1843 did-was A nobleman pedestrian was not an irregular sight , especially in the commercial district , where more fortunate skaa and less fortunate noblemen mixed on the streets -- though each group did its best to ignore the other .
1844 did-was It was also rimmed by beggars , but no fine fountain splashed the center of this intersection , nor did the corners contain wells to draw traffic .
1845 did-was Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1846 did-was Vin did n't know enough -- but , likely , that was something Valette would n't know either , so it was all right .
1847 did-was The long sleeves did n't help either , though the silky material was soft against her skin .
1848 did-was Jumping was faster than walking , but there did n't seem much point to it in the empty wilderness .
1849 did-was The sun was close to setting ; soon , the mists would come -- though , as usual , Sazed would have guards posted to make certain that she did n't go on any unauthorized Allomantic romps .
1850 did-was He did feel that there was a tension rising between the houses ; though the balls continued , there were more and more absences as people did n't attend parties thrown by their political rivals .
1851 did-was Our table was attended by Lord Elend Venture for most of the evening , though Mistress Vin did find a way to make his attentions less threatening to the court . ''
1852 did-was She did it with a calm , aristocratic manner , even her bearing reminding Vin just how inferior she was .
1853 did-was The boy was at least competent -- he blocked the blows , but he revealed a great deal about his abilities as he did so .
1854 did-was It was made of soft lace , but there did n't seem to be anything unusual about it .
1855 did-was It was probably unintentional , but that did n't make it any less frustrating .
1856 did-was I was afraid , so I acted like a proper noblewoman -- but you seemed disappointed when I did n't have more to say . ''
1857 did-was `` I did n't know him for very long , but ... well , I can promise you this , Elend : His love was as strong as that of any nobleman .
1858 did-was Not as she did in regular light -- everything was muted -- but it was sight nonetheless .
1859 did-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1860 did-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
1861 did-was Kelsier still had n't been able to discover which house was behind the murders , but the Luthadel nobility did n't seem to care who the culprit was .
1862 did-was She could see he was still troubled , but he did turn back to their walk , letting her gently take his arm again as they strolled .
1863 did-was She was cold , but she did n't care .
1864 did-was She did n't want to think poorly of Kelsier , but she just did n't see how it was all going to happen .
1865 did-was The glass was colored , though it did n't depict any specific scene .
1866 did-was The Greek debt crisis was mentioned often , though the potential ripple effects for the United States economy appear much weaker than they did a few years ago when Greece 's position in the eurozone was first at risk .
1867 did-was ` You wanted it , and you did n't get it because I was opposed , ' Mr. Bush shot back .
1868 did-was ` In an interview with The Associated Press during a Labor Day campaign swing through Iowa , Mrs. Clinton said on Monday that she did not need to apologize for using a private email account and server while at the State Department because ` what I did was allowed .
1869 did-was Mr. Biden , in contrast , stressed the success of the bill 's community policing measures , which he said had achieved their goals before funding was cut.And in an interview with Time magazine in February 2014 , he said , ' I am not only the guy who did the crime bill and the drug czar , but I 'm also the guy who spent years when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee trying to change drug policy relative to cocaine , for example , crack and powder .
1870 did-went Redd did n't even know about the infiltration until that night , when we went and got him .
1871 did-were The reason they did was because my administration , our diplomats , and oftentimes me personally , were able to persuade them that the only way to resolve this nuclear problem was to make these sanctions bite .
1872 did-were Called Form 8962 , it was new for this year 's tax filing season.-About 710,000 households that did not file a 2014 return by the tax-filing deadline , although they were legally required to account for health insurance tax credits.-Some 360,000 households that got tax credits and requested an extension to file their returns .
1873 did-were None of them smelled like she did , though they were far more cleanly and well groomed than average skaa .
1874 did-were The blue lines were thin and weak -- they did n't do well penetrating wood -- but they were just strong enough to let Kelsier locate the belt latch of a person out in the hallway , moving quickly away from the door on silent feet .
1875 did-were He did feel that there was a tension rising between the houses ; though the balls continued , there were more and more absences as people did n't attend parties thrown by their political rivals .
1876 did-were The grounds were kept well maintained , and though the ash had n't been cleaned up yet , the low-cut grass meant that she did n't have to hold her dress up much to keep it from dragging .
1877 did-were They were friendly and accepting , but they did n't think to include her .
1878 did-were I did n't even know you were here . ''
1879 did-were I did n't even know they were going to kill the girl afterward , Valette .
1880 did-were Perhaps if his wife were still alive , she could have taught Vin things about pretending to be a noblewoman that even Sazed did n't know .
1881 did-were The others did n't question him out loud , as per his request , but he could tell that they were still bothered by his growing fame .
1882 did-were Noblemen were n't supposed to be afraid of such things , but that did n't change the fact that the deep , caliginous mist was just plain creepy .
1883 did-were Some noble houses were falling , but there did n't seem to be the air of general chaos that Kelsier had wanted .
1884 did-were The building did n't smell musty enough to be abandoned , but the bottom few floors were obviously unused .
1885 did-worry Did he even worry about Allomancers ?
1886 die-does `` That does n't make what we do wrong -- however , if it were n't for us , these people would n't have to die .
1887 die-implementing Already , over a dozen states are preparing to file lawsuits against the plan in disputes that are expected to end up before the Supreme Court , where the justices will have final say over whether the regulations live or die.However , experts said , a new Republican president could simply stop implementing the regulations .
1888 die-lived The creatures are very long-lived , but they do eventually die of old age .
1889 died-expecting True , the men had died fighting the Final Empire , which was as good a death as any skaa could hope for -- however , the fact that they 'd likely died expecting some sort of divine protection from Kelsier ... that was disturbing .
1890 disagrees-hedge ___ 6:40 p.m.Billionaire Donald Trump is advocating for a progressive income tax , speaking out against a flat tax where everyone pays the same percentage no matter how much they earn.Trump says during the second Republican presidential debate that it 's not fair for someone who makes $ 50,000 a year to pay the same percentage in taxes as a millionaire.Trump also promises to release a tax reform plan in a couple weeks that hedge fund managers wo n't like , but that those in the middle class will.Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul disagrees , saying a flat 14.5 percent tax on everyone is the way to go .
1891 disappearing-flared She flared her iron , but it was barely enough to catch a glimpse of him disappearing again in the distance .
1892 disappears-reaches The atium reaches the city , but then disappears .
1893 disappoint-favors Favors to campaign donors happen every day in Washington , but politicians also often disappoint their campaign supporters once in office .
1894 disappointed-wish I could seek more information on this , if you wish , but I worry you will be disappointed in what I find .
1895 disapproving-ignored A few of the ladies shot disapproving glances toward Vin , but most of them -- Shan included -- ignored her .
1896 disarming-tresting The obligator smiled ; he likely meant it to be disarming , but Tresting only found it eerie .
1897 disclose-run She also backs a new Securities and Exchange Commission rule requiring publicly traded companies to disclose political activity.She said she would also sign an executive order requiring federal contractors to fully disclose all political spending.But each proposal has run into fierce resistance from Republicans and business groups .
1898 disclose-run She also backs a new Securities and Exchange Commission rule requiring publicly traded companies to disclose political activity.She said she would also sign an executive order requiring federal contractors to fully disclose all political spending.But each proposal has run into fierce resistance from Republicans and business groups .
1899 disclosed-emphasized The dollar amount is expected to be disclosed soon.But some potential donors have said in recent weeks that Mr. Walker 's busy schedule was not an issue for them ; rather , they were taking a wait-and-see approach on Mr. Walker.Advisers to Mr. Walker emphasized that policy briefings were not the only important way that he had educated himself on the issues .
1900 discover-seem Kelsier still had n't been able to discover which house was behind the murders , but the Luthadel nobility did n't seem to care who the culprit was .
1901 discovered-forge One that has n't been discovered -- probably because atium and gold are too valuable to forge into different alloys .
1902 discovered-grown Kelsier and Marsh had grown up privileged -- considered illegitimate , but still noble -- until their father had finally discovered the truth .
1903 discovered-strongholded Theron had discovered , however , that those acolytes and their overseers brought down with them large amounts of Ministry funds -- disguised as baggage -- to be strongholded in Luthadel .
1904 discovered-was She probably had n't discovered much of value to Kelsier -- however , Liese was only the beginning .
1905 discriminating-inspect He did n't really know what to inspect , but he tried to look discriminating .
1906 discuss-obtained According to a schedule of his trip obtained by The New York Times , Mr. Walker will also tour the Western Wall in Jerusalem , meet with members of Parliament and the Israeli Defense Forces , and take a helicopter tour of Israel.But aside from a quick mention during his remarks , Mr. Walker was unwilling to discuss the trip .
1907 discuss-said Graham has formed a similar group , Security Through Strength , and has begun traveling to early nominating states to discuss what he calls ` the threat of radical Islam ' as he ponders a presidential run.Mike Rogers , the former Michigan representative and the former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee , is not considering a presidential bid , but he is trying to influence the 2016 race by creating an organization called Americans for Peace Prosperity and Security , which he said would support candidates ` who understand the importance of American engagement . '
1908 discuss-said `` We 'd have to discuss timing , though , '' Dockson said .
1909 discussing-were Not all of them were discussing Kelsier , but a surprising number were .
1910 dislike-does Many people dislike him -- precisely because he does things like this . ''
1911 dislike-vote When some Americans in their 20s say that they would never vote for us , it is not because they dislike us on the small-government or limited-regulation fronts .
1912 disobey-taken I am here by providence of Terris prophecies -- these men will not disobey their own religion simply because one of their number has taken a dislike to me .
1913 displaced-preceding You watch the news reports preceding the Arab Spring , but certainly since the Arab Spring started to turn into more an Arab Winter , and you weep for the children of this region , not just the ones who are being displaced in Syria , not just the ones who are currently suffering from humanitarian situations in Yemen , but just the ordinary Iranian youth or Saudi youth or Kuwaiti youth who are asking themselves , ` Why is it that we do n't have the same prospects that some kid in Finland , Singapore , China , Indonesia , the United States ?
1914 displays-edged The full conversation was released Wednesday.In the video , Mrs. Clinton shows little of the soft-edged , convivial but careful persona she often displays at her staged campaign events .
1915 displays-s It begins : ` JEB BUSH 'S THOUGHTS ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS ' and displays a film clip of Bush saying ` Yes , they broke the law , but it 's not a felony .
1916 disregarding-have I have no such fears ; even disregarding the Terris prophecies , I have brought such chaos , conflict , and hope to this world that there is little chance that I will be forgotten .
1917 disrupt-disrupting ` Well , first , we 're disrupting because we try to disrupt plots , but also we face people who are highly unpredictable .
1918 disrupt-want `` It might disrupt trade for a while , but I doubt it would have the effect we want .
1919 distinguish-tested If she focused , she could distinguish eight sources of power within her -- each one far larger , even , than her two had been on the day when Kelsier had tested her .
1920 divided-mind And it 's looking to expand a paid staff of 80 now divided between the campaign 's suburban Washington headquarters and early voting states across the country.The political establishment remains skeptical of his chances , but Carson does n't seem to mind .
1921 do-find They are able to run campaigns emphasizing their executive accomplishments and promising to change Washington , even if they do n't actually do so.But the Democrats have a distinct weakness in trying to find a governor to be their nominee in 2016 : The party currently holds only 18 of the nation 's 50 governorships .
1922 do-find They are able to run campaigns emphasizing their executive accomplishments and promising to change Washington , even if they do n't actually do so.But the Democrats have a distinct weakness in trying to find a governor to be their nominee in 2016 : The party currently holds only 18 of the nation 's 50 governorships .
1923 do-find I ca n't find out much else about them -- though I do know that they age . ''
1924 do-find `` I 'll see what I can find , but do n't get your hopes up .
1925 do-find They are able to run campaigns emphasizing their executive accomplishments and promising to change Washington , even if they do n't actually do so.But the Democrats have a distinct weakness in trying to find a governor to be their nominee in 2016 : The party currently holds only 18 of the nation 's 50 governorships .
1926 do-find They are able to run campaigns emphasizing their executive accomplishments and promising to change Washington , even if they do n't actually do so.But the Democrats have a distinct weakness in trying to find a governor to be their nominee in 2016 : The party currently holds only 18 of the nation 's 50 governorships .
1927 do-find I ca n't find out much else about them -- though I do know that they age . ''
1928 do-find `` I 'll see what I can find , but do n't get your hopes up .
1929 do-go I ca n't go to parties or functions -- but I can probably do solitary house visits . ''
1930 do-go I was originally supposed to go assassinate noblemen , but Kell does n't want me to do that anymore . ''
1931 do-go He seems to go through the motions of reaching for the emotional connection that other candidates try to seize , referring to the joy of childbirth as ` extraordinary , unbelievable , O.K. , ' before quickly shifting to the dearth of family leave time for working women.But the people do n't come to hear Mr. Sanders 's story .
1932 do-had ` That 's an example of how this is so different : There could be a plan to do something in the future , but the kind of folks these are , they 're unpredictable , unreliable , ' Mr. Comey said.In response to calls on Twitter by the Islamic State for Americans to stage attacks on the Fourth of July , F.B.I. officials in Washington told agents across the country in the weeks leading up to the holiday to arrest suspects under surveillance if they believed they had enough evidence to bring charges .
1933 do-had Breeze could only do one thing , but he obviously had a great deal of practice at it .
1934 do-had We managed to sneak one of our best men up to the building itself -- we do n't think he was spotted -- but he had a remarkably difficult time hearing what 's going on inside .
1935 do-had She 'd always assumed that the title `` Mistborn '' had come about because Allomancers tended to do their work at night .
1936 do-had They then affixed the activist label onto the president 's nominee , Sonia Sotomayor , who had in fact spent a distinctly nonactivist 17 years as a federal judge but who was then forced to offer senator after senator a stilted pledge to do nothing on the bench but ` apply the law . '
1937 do-had We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
1938 do-had ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
1939 do-have I do n't think Ben has the energy , ' Mr. Trump said.Responding to the criticism Sunday on ABC 's ` This Week , ' Mr. Carson said , ` It does n't bother me , because I recognize I have plenty of energy , operating on people for 10 , 12 , sometimes for greater than 20 hours at a time . '
1940 do-have I was happy to have done it for him , but I did n't start out to do it that way , ' Mr. Hendrix said .
1941 do-have The key , he insists , is how well you curb it and verify its limitations : ` Now , Prime Minister Netanyahu would prefer , and many of the critics would prefer , that they do n't even have any nuclear capacity .
1942 do-have ` Well , I have n't learned yet to trust the Iranian leadership , ' said Mr. Obama , ` although I think that what John Kerry learned in his interactions with Foreign Minister Zarif - and that then traces back to President Rouhani - is that when you nail down an agreement , they do seem to follow it to the letter , perhaps thinking there may be a loophole here or there , which is why you have to button this stuff down .
1943 do-have I have no indication Secretary Kerry would ever run again , but I do n't think anyone else has more experience in preparing and running for the presidency than Kerry . '
1944 do-have They are able to run campaigns emphasizing their executive accomplishments and promising to change Washington , even if they do n't actually do so.But the Democrats have a distinct weakness in trying to find a governor to be their nominee in 2016 : The party currently holds only 18 of the nation 's 50 governorships .
1945 do-have They are able to run campaigns emphasizing their executive accomplishments and promising to change Washington , even if they do n't actually do so.But the Democrats have a distinct weakness in trying to find a governor to be their nominee in 2016 : The party currently holds only 18 of the nation 's 50 governorships .
1946 do-have ` As our progressive partners have real issues they are grappling with , we can take the time and energy to come up with a fix to the problems they have , ' Mr. Mestrich said.Candidates of both parties often keep at least some of their money in home-state banks , for appearance 's sake.But many Republican candidates and super PACs , including Jeb Bush and the deep-pocketed super PAC supporting him , do the bulk of their banking with their own version of Amalgamated , the smaller Chain Bridge Bank , based in McLean , Va. .
1947 do-have ` As our progressive partners have real issues they are grappling with , we can take the time and energy to come up with a fix to the problems they have , ' Mr. Mestrich said.Candidates of both parties often keep at least some of their money in home-state banks , for appearance 's sake.But many Republican candidates and super PACs , including Jeb Bush and the deep-pocketed super PAC supporting him , do the bulk of their banking with their own version of Amalgamated , the smaller Chain Bridge Bank , based in McLean , Va. .
1948 do-have I do n't even want to have to work with you , and I 'm your brother .
1949 do-have `` I 'm sure that you do -- but I have to be honest with you , Kell .
1950 do-have `` It 's easier to balance in the air if you have a tripod of anchors , but you can do fine with a single anchor .
1951 do-have `` I do n't know -- but we 'll have to think of something .
1952 do-have Many do not realize that it is sentient , but I have sensed its mind , such that it is , the few times I have confronted it directly .
1953 do-have Many do not realize that it is sentient , but I have sensed its mind , such that it is , the few times I have confronted it directly .
1954 do-have You ca n't do much better than that -- though , I suppose she could have tried to marry the Lord Ruler .
1955 do-have `` You probably do n't even have to worry about the Hastings -- it seems that they 're making preparations to bolt the city . ''
1956 do-have `` That does n't make what we do wrong -- however , if it were n't for us , these people would n't have to die .
1957 do-have Kelsier would probably have gone after her , but Dockson would n't let himself do something that brash .
1958 do-have I do business with the Mexican people , but you have people coming through the border that are from all over .
1959 do-have We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
1960 do-holds Whether he will do so is perhaps the biggest question of the race , in part because his performance to date has provided so many reasons to doubt he can do it.Nowhere are Mr. Walker 's advantages more obvious than in Iowa , where he holds a persistent lead in early polls .
1961 do-holds They are able to run campaigns emphasizing their executive accomplishments and promising to change Washington , even if they do n't actually do so.But the Democrats have a distinct weakness in trying to find a governor to be their nominee in 2016 : The party currently holds only 18 of the nation 's 50 governorships .
1962 do-holds They are able to run campaigns emphasizing their executive accomplishments and promising to change Washington , even if they do n't actually do so.But the Democrats have a distinct weakness in trying to find a governor to be their nominee in 2016 : The party currently holds only 18 of the nation 's 50 governorships .
1963 do-invited `` I do n't even see why he was invited , '' Breeze said .
1964 do-is I do n't have time to talk about somebody else , ' Mr. Kasich said , adding that he was fully occupied , like Mr. Carson , with introducing himself to voters.Responding to a question from a voter about how he had similarly deflected the topic of Mr. Trump in a CNN interview , Mr. Kasich even avoided mentioning the unlikely Republican poll-leader by name.For a while , that is.He eventually gave in to temptation , after uncorking a metaphor about how his much-praised debate performance was akin to being an astronaut launched in a rocket ship .
1965 do-is Whether he will do so is perhaps the biggest question of the race , in part because his performance to date has provided so many reasons to doubt he can do it.Nowhere are Mr. Walker 's advantages more obvious than in Iowa , where he holds a persistent lead in early polls .
1966 do-is It is because I do n't think Trump can run that strongly , especially now that he is talking about tax increases .
1967 do-is The more we do those things , that 's the level of deterrence that 's necessary because it is highly unlikely that you are going to see Iran launch a direct attack , state to state , against any of our allies in the region .
1968 do-is My high school physics probably is n't equal to Ernie Moniz 's , but I do remember it 's not that easy to suddenly just hide potentially radioactive material that 's been developed .
1969 do-is As a two-term governor in a critical swing state - no candidate since John F. Kennedy in 1960 has won the White House without winning Ohio - he is a credible candidate , though his late entry means he has catch-up work to do .
1970 do-is It is difficult , but for those who can do it well ... '' The door opened , and the sullen skaa man returned , bearing an entire bottle of wine .
1971 do-is `` Most of the Great Houses do -- but your friend Elend is n't one of them .
1972 do-is The other is a Hasting , though I do n't know his given name . ''
1973 do-is `` Our soldiers do n't even know that Renoux is in on the plan , '' Kelsier said , smiling .
1974 do-is `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
1975 do-is Many do not realize that it is sentient , but I have sensed its mind , such that it is , the few times I have confronted it directly .
1976 do-is `` I do n't know why I even care -- anything you learn is bound to be worthless .
1977 do-is I do n't blame you men for your choices , but a time of change is coming .
1978 do-is ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
1979 do-is The results demonstrate that not only do a majority of whites , 52 percent , agree , but that this agreement is heavily concentrated among conservative constituencies , including Tea Party supporters and white evangelicals.In 2013 , well before a Trump bid was visible , the polling company Latino Decisions , which specializes in analysis of the Hispanic electorate , developed a survey measure of ` openness to diversity . '
1980 do-is ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
1981 do-is I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
1982 do-is `` I do n't even look like a typical person , '' Fetterman joked.Fetterman is also unlike any other mayor.He tattooed the town 's zip code - 15014 - on one forearm and the date of every slaying in the borough since he became mayor on the other.One of those tattoos represents the death of a nephew of Braddock 's council president , Tina Doose .
1983 do-is They `` may not believe we can do it , but I sure as heck do , '' he said.Bush said he wants to create a tax code that is `` simple , fair and clear , '' and predicts it will help the economy grow 4 percent annually , a target many economists say is highly unrealistic.Under his plan , Bush wants to reduce the corporate income tax from 35 percent - among the highest in the world - to 20 percent and give businesses the chance to deduct new capital investments immediately .
1984 do-is They `` may not believe we can do it , but I sure as heck do , '' he said.Bush said he wants to create a tax code that is `` simple , fair and clear , '' and predicts it will help the economy grow 4 percent annually , a target many economists say is highly unrealistic.Under his plan , Bush wants to reduce the corporate income tax from 35 percent - among the highest in the world - to 20 percent and give businesses the chance to deduct new capital investments immediately .
1985 do-kell `` I 'm sure that you do -- but I have to be honest with you , Kell .
1986 do-know `` I know it 's instinctual , Vin , but you do n't have to put your hands forward when you Push -- nor do you have to drop what you 're holding . ''
1987 do-know `` I know it 's instinctual , Vin , but you do n't have to put your hands forward when you Push -- nor do you have to drop what you 're holding . ''
1988 do-know `` Our soldiers do n't even know that Renoux is in on the plan , '' Kelsier said , smiling .
1989 do-know Those soldiers do n't know I 'm a Misting , but they know I work in the underground .
1990 do-know However , I apparently know more about the Ministry than even some of its members do .
1991 do-know Kelsier did n't know what it was , but I do .
1992 do-know `` I know it 's instinctual , Vin , but you do n't have to put your hands forward when you Push -- nor do you have to drop what you 're holding . ''
1993 do-know `` I know it 's instinctual , Vin , but you do n't have to put your hands forward when you Push -- nor do you have to drop what you 're holding . ''
1994 do-know `` Our soldiers do n't even know that Renoux is in on the plan , '' Kelsier said , smiling .
1995 do-know Those soldiers do n't know I 'm a Misting , but they know I work in the underground .
1996 do-know However , I apparently know more about the Ministry than even some of its members do .
1997 do-know Kelsier did n't know what it was , but I do .
1998 do-leave They do n't even take prisoners for executions -- they just leave them all dead . ''
1999 do-leave He seems to go through the motions of reaching for the emotional connection that other candidates try to seize , referring to the joy of childbirth as ` extraordinary , unbelievable , O.K. , ' before quickly shifting to the dearth of family leave time for working women.But the people do n't come to hear Mr. Sanders 's story .
2000 do-let The blue lines were thin and weak -- they did n't do well penetrating wood -- but they were just strong enough to let Kelsier locate the belt latch of a person out in the hallway , moving quickly away from the door on silent feet .
2001 do-let `` I would never do such a thing , but I 'm certainly not going to let you send me to my death , either !
2002 do-move There was little they could do but move on , though .
2003 do-notice They probably do n't even notice .
2004 do-notice `` I do n't even notice it anymore . ''
2005 do-notice They probably do n't even notice .
2006 do-notice `` I do n't even notice it anymore . ''
2007 do-pay We ca n't pay you more because we do n't have anything more . ''
2008 do-pay The noblemen do n't notice because they never pay attention to skaa faces . ''
2009 do-pay We ca n't pay you more because we do n't have anything more . ''
2010 do-pay The noblemen do n't notice because they never pay attention to skaa faces . ''
2011 do-promising They are able to run campaigns emphasizing their executive accomplishments and promising to change Washington , even if they do n't actually do so.But the Democrats have a distinct weakness in trying to find a governor to be their nominee in 2016 : The party currently holds only 18 of the nation 's 50 governorships .
2012 do-promising They are able to run campaigns emphasizing their executive accomplishments and promising to change Washington , even if they do n't actually do so.But the Democrats have a distinct weakness in trying to find a governor to be their nominee in 2016 : The party currently holds only 18 of the nation 's 50 governorships .
2013 do-s Whether he will do so is perhaps the biggest question of the race , in part because his performance to date has provided so many reasons to doubt he can do it.Nowhere are Mr. Walker 's advantages more obvious than in Iowa , where he holds a persistent lead in early polls .
2014 do-s More important , Republicans do not want to be targeted by conservative outside groups like Americans for Prosperity , the political advocacy group funded by the libertarian billionaires Charles and David Koch.Tim Phillips , the president of Americans for Prosperity , has said that his group intends to aggressively attack any Republican candidate in the 2016 primaries who endorses carbon regulations.But some Republican strategists worry that the position on climate change that could help win them their party 's nomination could hurt them in a general election , particularly in a contest with a larger number of young and minority voters .
2015 do-s They are able to run campaigns emphasizing their executive accomplishments and promising to change Washington , even if they do n't actually do so.But the Democrats have a distinct weakness in trying to find a governor to be their nominee in 2016 : The party currently holds only 18 of the nation 's 50 governorships .
2016 do-s They are able to run campaigns emphasizing their executive accomplishments and promising to change Washington , even if they do n't actually do so.But the Democrats have a distinct weakness in trying to find a governor to be their nominee in 2016 : The party currently holds only 18 of the nation 's 50 governorships .
2017 do-s He took particular issue with Mr. Trump 's support for higher tariffs and his apparent disregard for long-term deficits.Even those reformocons who are immigration hawks do not necessarily find much to love in Mr. Trump 's agenda .
2018 do-s Irene Gallo , the art director at Tor , does a brilliant job -- it 's because of her that both this book and Elantris have the wonderful covers that they do .
2019 do-s `` It 's easier to balance in the air if you have a tripod of anchors , but you can do fine with a single anchor .
2020 do-s `` I know it 's instinctual , Vin , but you do n't have to put your hands forward when you Push -- nor do you have to drop what you 're holding . ''
2021 do-s `` I know it 's instinctual , Vin , but you do n't have to put your hands forward when you Push -- nor do you have to drop what you 're holding . ''
2022 do-s I know you do n't like that , but it 's the simple truth ! ''
2023 do-s `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
2024 do-s We managed to sneak one of our best men up to the building itself -- we do n't think he was spotted -- but he had a remarkably difficult time hearing what 's going on inside .
2025 do-s It 's like the regular obligators do n't even care about the world outside , except for the prestige they earn by being the most clever or successful in applying the Lord Ruler 's dictates .
2026 do-s It 's safe to burn -- it wo n't kill you -- but it does n't appear to do anything useful .
2027 do-s They then affixed the activist label onto the president 's nominee , Sonia Sotomayor , who had in fact spent a distinctly nonactivist 17 years as a federal judge but who was then forced to offer senator after senator a stilted pledge to do nothing on the bench but ` apply the law . '
2028 do-s They do , and they did under decades-old Supreme Court precedent before Citizens United , although many of the decision 's critics do n't seem to realize that fact .
2029 do-s ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
2030 do-s We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
2031 do-s We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
2032 do-s I do n't mind though - it 's amazing to see art across the city .
2033 do-s ` Unlike some people who offer themselves for president in 2016 , you wo n't have to wonder whether I can do it or not , ' he said , invoking the ` economic calamity ' he said he inherited in 2010 and the ` unprecedented natural disaster , ' Hurricane Sandy , that he weathered as governor.But he reserved his deepest disdain for Congress and for the president 's stewardship of foreign affairs , and extended that critique to President Obama 's former secretary of state .
2034 do-s ` Unlike some people who offer themselves for president in 2016 , you wo n't have to wonder whether I can do it or not , ' he said , invoking the ` economic calamity ' he said he inherited in 2010 and the ` unprecedented natural disaster , ' Hurricane Sandy , that he weathered as governor.But he reserved his deepest disdain for Congress and for the president 's stewardship of foreign affairs , and extended that critique to President Obama 's former secretary of state .
2035 do-s ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
2036 do-s ` There 's a genuine fondness for the vice president , but I do n't think there 's a yearning for him to get in the race , ' said former Gov. Jim Hodges of South Carolina.Still , Mrs. Clinton 's closest aides have privately expressed concerns that the campaign would have to spend heavily to defeat Mr. Biden in a primary .
2037 do-s The legislators who sponsored the 2013 law have refused to testify , citing legislative immunity.During closing arguments Friday , Judge Schroeder , who was appointed by President George W. Bush , peppered the plaintiffs ' lawyers with questions about why the repeal of extra voting opportunities that do not exist in many states would be illegal.But he also pressed the state 's lawyers on what motivated legislators to make the sudden changes to a system that seemed to be popular and working well .
2038 do-s `` I do n't even look like a typical person , '' Fetterman joked.Fetterman is also unlike any other mayor.He tattooed the town 's zip code - 15014 - on one forearm and the date of every slaying in the borough since he became mayor on the other.One of those tattoos represents the death of a nephew of Braddock 's council president , Tina Doose .
2039 do-see The more we do those things , that 's the level of deterrence that 's necessary because it is highly unlikely that you are going to see Iran launch a direct attack , state to state , against any of our allies in the region .
2040 do-see `` I do n't even see why he was invited , '' Breeze said .
2041 do-see Do n't forget the ash because you see a little silk .
2042 do-see `` I 'll see what I can find , but do n't get your hopes up .
2043 do-see That 's clearly the case with abortion ; most Americans , even if they support some limits on access to abortion , do n't want to see Roe v. Wade overturned.Citizens United makes a fascinating litmus test because a majority of Americans - Republicans as well as Democrats - actually do want to see it overturned .
2044 do-see That 's clearly the case with abortion ; most Americans , even if they support some limits on access to abortion , do n't want to see Roe v. Wade overturned.Citizens United makes a fascinating litmus test because a majority of Americans - Republicans as well as Democrats - actually do want to see it overturned .
2045 do-see I do n't mind though - it 's amazing to see art across the city .
2046 do-sit It is n't like I can do anything else but sit here .
2047 do-slaughtering The rebellion could do some good , but only if the skaa do n't insist on slaughtering their allies .
2048 do-sleeps Noblewomen do n't even consider it cheating when their lord sleeps with a skaa woman . ''
2049 do-smiling `` Our soldiers do n't even know that Renoux is in on the plan , '' Kelsier said , smiling .
2050 do-sounds This sounds crazy , but so do most of your plans .
2051 do-suppose You ca n't do much better than that -- though , I suppose she could have tried to marry the Lord Ruler .
2052 do-supposed I do n't even understand what I 'm supposed to do .
2053 do-supposed I was originally supposed to go assassinate noblemen , but Kell does n't want me to do that anymore . ''
2054 do-tattooed `` I do n't even look like a typical person , '' Fetterman joked.Fetterman is also unlike any other mayor.He tattooed the town 's zip code - 15014 - on one forearm and the date of every slaying in the borough since he became mayor on the other.One of those tattoos represents the death of a nephew of Braddock 's council president , Tina Doose .
2055 do-telling `` I do , however , recall telling you that the Ventures were an annoying lot .
2056 do-think Do you think we even want to spend money to do that ? ''
2057 do-think `` I do n't know -- but we 'll have to think of something .
2058 do-think `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
2059 do-think I do n't even think of the empty streets as creepy anymore .
2060 do-think I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
2061 do-understand ` He 's made so many flubs , I do n't even understand it , ' Mr. Trump said of Mr. Bush.Mr .
2062 do-understand I do n't even understand what I 'm supposed to do .
2063 do-understand `` Oh , child -- I do not wish to bring you pain , but you must understand the ways of the court .
2064 do-worry More important , Republicans do not want to be targeted by conservative outside groups like Americans for Prosperity , the political advocacy group funded by the libertarian billionaires Charles and David Koch.Tim Phillips , the president of Americans for Prosperity , has said that his group intends to aggressively attack any Republican candidate in the 2016 primaries who endorses carbon regulations.But some Republican strategists worry that the position on climate change that could help win them their party 's nomination could hurt them in a general election , particularly in a contest with a larger number of young and minority voters .
2065 do-worry `` You probably do n't even have to worry about the Hastings -- it seems that they 're making preparations to bolt the city . ''
2066 dodge-ll You can dodge attacks with ease because you 'll be able to see where every blow will fall .
2067 does-forbidden `` Lord Elend might be reading a forbidden book , but that does n't make him our friend .
2068 does-have I do n't think Ben has the energy , ' Mr. Trump said.Responding to the criticism Sunday on ABC 's ` This Week , ' Mr. Carson said , ` It does n't bother me , because I recognize I have plenty of energy , operating on people for 10 , 12 , sometimes for greater than 20 hours at a time . '
2069 does-have `` Sanders ' remarks came on the same day that Americans for Prosperity , a conservative activists organization backed heavily by the Kochs , heard from several Republican White House hopefuls.Sanders typically does not mention Clinton or any Republican candidates by name , but relishes telling his audiences that he stands out for refusing any support from Super PACs , the political committees that can accept the unlimited sums as long as they do n't coordinate directly with candidates ' principal campaign committees.He says he has more than 400,000 individual contributors who have chipped in an average of $ 31.20 .
2070 does-have ` He does n't need anybody 's money , ' said Maureen Colcord , 60 , a clinical dietitian from Derry.Even as dozens of national and state polls have charted Mr. Trump 's steady ascent , Republican campaigns have taken solace in their conviction that those surveys are flawed and misleading .
2071 does-have ` He does n't need anybody 's money , ' said Maureen Colcord , 60 , a clinical dietitian from Derry.Even as dozens of national and state polls have charted Mr. Trump 's steady ascent , Republican campaigns have taken solace in their conviction that those surveys are flawed and misleading .
2072 does-have And if they saw us walking away from what technical experts believe is a legitimate mechanism to ensure that Iran does not have a nuclear weapon - if they saw that our diplomatic efforts were not sincere , or were trying to encompass not just the nuclear program , but every policy disagreement that we might have with Iran , then frankly , those sanctions would start falling apart very rapidly .
2073 does-have A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
2074 does-have A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
2075 does-have The paucity of fresh faces even gave rise to a joking Twitter hashtag : #Dukakis 2016 , offering up the party 's 1988 nominee , former Massachusetts Gov. Michael S. Dukakis.Still , Mr. Biden , Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore have lost presidential bids before and are hardly guaranteed party saviors - or more popular than Mrs. Clinton among important demographic groups like women , African-Americans and Hispanics.Indeed , for all of the talk about 2016 fallback plans , Mrs. Clinton remains the front-runner for the nomination , and her comments on Tuesday in an interview with ABC News and in a follow-up message to supporters - saying ` I 'm sorry ' for relying on private email for government business as secretary of state and calling that practice ' a mistake ' - may help assuage concerns among some Democrats about her candidacy.But the chatter could continue if Mrs. Clinton does not quickly regain her footing .
2076 does-have Irene Gallo , the art director at Tor , does a brilliant job -- it 's because of her that both this book and Elantris have the wonderful covers that they do .
2077 does-have `` That does n't make what we do wrong -- however , if it were n't for us , these people would n't have to die .
2078 does-have The Lord Ruler does n't even have the decency to clean up his slaughter ! ''
2079 does-help A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
2080 does-help A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
2081 does-help The paucity of fresh faces even gave rise to a joking Twitter hashtag : #Dukakis 2016 , offering up the party 's 1988 nominee , former Massachusetts Gov. Michael S. Dukakis.Still , Mr. Biden , Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore have lost presidential bids before and are hardly guaranteed party saviors - or more popular than Mrs. Clinton among important demographic groups like women , African-Americans and Hispanics.Indeed , for all of the talk about 2016 fallback plans , Mrs. Clinton remains the front-runner for the nomination , and her comments on Tuesday in an interview with ABC News and in a follow-up message to supporters - saying ` I 'm sorry ' for relying on private email for government business as secretary of state and calling that practice ' a mistake ' - may help assuage concerns among some Democrats about her candidacy.But the chatter could continue if Mrs. Clinton does not quickly regain her footing .
2082 does-help Perhaps they ca n't help what they are , but that does n't change their nature . ''
2083 does-know We already know that scandals can hurt incumbents in House elections , but it does n't come close to dooming them , studies have shown.The issue with Mrs. Clinton 's email account and server does n't yet rise to the level of the scandals counted in the studies on House elections .
2084 does-know We already know that scandals can hurt incumbents in House elections , but it does n't come close to dooming them , studies have shown.The issue with Mrs. Clinton 's email account and server does n't yet rise to the level of the scandals counted in the studies on House elections .
2085 does-know `` As for Elend , he does n't even know that I 'm skaa -- and it 's my job to try and destroy his family .
2086 does-know I know the Lord Ruler 's secret , but what does it tell me ?
2087 does-looks If it looks like your opponent is using atium , then you 'd better use yours too -- however , make sure he does n't lure you into using up your reserve before he does . ''
2088 does-looks If it looks like your opponent is using atium , then you 'd better use yours too -- however , make sure he does n't lure you into using up your reserve before he does . ''
2089 does-make Fifty boxings will not make us a profit , but that does n't matter .
2090 does-realize Perhaps he does n't even realize that Renoux is an imposter .
2091 does-renew WASHINGTON - Sign-up season for President Barack Obama 's health care law does n't start for another couple of months , but the next few days are crucial for hundreds of thousands of customers at risk of losing financial aid when they renew coverage for 2016 .
2092 does-s ` He does n't need anybody 's money , ' said Maureen Colcord , 60 , a clinical dietitian from Derry.Even as dozens of national and state polls have charted Mr. Trump 's steady ascent , Republican campaigns have taken solace in their conviction that those surveys are flawed and misleading .
2093 does-s The paucity of fresh faces even gave rise to a joking Twitter hashtag : #Dukakis 2016 , offering up the party 's 1988 nominee , former Massachusetts Gov. Michael S. Dukakis.Still , Mr. Biden , Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore have lost presidential bids before and are hardly guaranteed party saviors - or more popular than Mrs. Clinton among important demographic groups like women , African-Americans and Hispanics.Indeed , for all of the talk about 2016 fallback plans , Mrs. Clinton remains the front-runner for the nomination , and her comments on Tuesday in an interview with ABC News and in a follow-up message to supporters - saying ` I 'm sorry ' for relying on private email for government business as secretary of state and calling that practice ' a mistake ' - may help assuage concerns among some Democrats about her candidacy.But the chatter could continue if Mrs. Clinton does not quickly regain her footing .
2094 does-s And it 's looking to expand a paid staff of 80 now divided between the campaign 's suburban Washington headquarters and early voting states across the country.The political establishment remains skeptical of his chances , but Carson does n't seem to mind .
2095 does-s And it 's looking to expand a paid staff of 80 now divided between the campaign 's suburban Washington headquarters and early voting states across the country.The political establishment remains skeptical of his chances , but Carson does n't seem to mind .
2096 does-s It 's blackish and translucent , but it does n't have a shadowlike solid outline .
2097 does-s He 's a powerful Allomancer , but he does n't know everything -- if he did , we 'd be dead right now .
2098 does-s `` As for Elend , he does n't even know that I 'm skaa -- and it 's my job to try and destroy his family .
2099 does-s It 's safe to burn -- it wo n't kill you -- but it does n't appear to do anything useful .
2100 does-s ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
2101 does-s One place to start is his argument that because he 's a billionaire who does n't depend on contributions from others , he 's somehow superior because he 's immune from political influence.The casino magnate refers to his competitors who accept political donations as `` puppets '' who are `` totally controlled by special interests , lobbyists and donors . ''
2102 does-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
2103 does-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
2104 does-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
2105 does-s Indeed , Mr. Bush 's hapless attempt at a takedown suggests that his political team still does n't get it , and thinks that pointing out The Donald 's heresies will be enough to doom his campaign.But Mr. Trump , who is self-financing , did n't need to genuflect to the big money , and it turns out that the base does n't mind his heresies .
2106 does-s ` He does n't need anybody 's money , ' said Maureen Colcord , 60 , a clinical dietitian from Derry.Even as dozens of national and state polls have charted Mr. Trump 's steady ascent , Republican campaigns have taken solace in their conviction that those surveys are flawed and misleading .
2107 does-s The paucity of fresh faces even gave rise to a joking Twitter hashtag : #Dukakis 2016 , offering up the party 's 1988 nominee , former Massachusetts Gov. Michael S. Dukakis.Still , Mr. Biden , Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore have lost presidential bids before and are hardly guaranteed party saviors - or more popular than Mrs. Clinton among important demographic groups like women , African-Americans and Hispanics.Indeed , for all of the talk about 2016 fallback plans , Mrs. Clinton remains the front-runner for the nomination , and her comments on Tuesday in an interview with ABC News and in a follow-up message to supporters - saying ` I 'm sorry ' for relying on private email for government business as secretary of state and calling that practice ' a mistake ' - may help assuage concerns among some Democrats about her candidacy.But the chatter could continue if Mrs. Clinton does not quickly regain her footing .
2108 does-s And it 's looking to expand a paid staff of 80 now divided between the campaign 's suburban Washington headquarters and early voting states across the country.The political establishment remains skeptical of his chances , but Carson does n't seem to mind .
2109 does-s And it 's looking to expand a paid staff of 80 now divided between the campaign 's suburban Washington headquarters and early voting states across the country.The political establishment remains skeptical of his chances , but Carson does n't seem to mind .
2110 does-s It 's blackish and translucent , but it does n't have a shadowlike solid outline .
2111 does-s He 's a powerful Allomancer , but he does n't know everything -- if he did , we 'd be dead right now .
2112 does-s `` As for Elend , he does n't even know that I 'm skaa -- and it 's my job to try and destroy his family .
2113 does-s It 's safe to burn -- it wo n't kill you -- but it does n't appear to do anything useful .
2114 does-s ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
2115 does-s One place to start is his argument that because he 's a billionaire who does n't depend on contributions from others , he 's somehow superior because he 's immune from political influence.The casino magnate refers to his competitors who accept political donations as `` puppets '' who are `` totally controlled by special interests , lobbyists and donors . ''
2116 does-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
2117 does-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
2118 does-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
2119 does-s Indeed , Mr. Bush 's hapless attempt at a takedown suggests that his political team still does n't get it , and thinks that pointing out The Donald 's heresies will be enough to doom his campaign.But Mr. Trump , who is self-financing , did n't need to genuflect to the big money , and it turns out that the base does n't mind his heresies .
2120 does-said The Spanish-language news media has also been more critical in its coverage of Mr. Trump 's positions on the issue , with nearly all of it negative in tone.José Díaz-Balart , the main anchor for Telemundo and MSNBC who takes a straight-news approach to his coverage and does not consider himself an advocate , nonetheless said that because of its viewership , Telemundo has delved deeper into the specifics of Mr. Trump 's immigration plan than many English-language outlets and has covered his candidacy with a sense of ` urgency . ''
2121 does-said `` My apologies , Master Kelsier , '' Sazed said , `` but the religion does not suit you , I think .
2122 does-said `` Interesting , '' Breeze said , `` but how does it help us ? ''
2123 does-said `` There does n't appear to be any pattern in the Inquisitor hits , however , '' Breeze said .
2124 does-said ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
2125 does-sazed `` My apologies , Master Kelsier , '' Sazed said , `` but the religion does not suit you , I think .
2126 does-sazed Something she does n't even want Sazed to hear ?
2127 does-see `` The Lord Ruler does n't even see it -- he does n't want to . ''
2128 does-see How does he even see ?
2129 does-using I 'd guess that she does n't know that she 's even using her abilities . ''
2130 does-using If it looks like your opponent is using atium , then you 'd better use yours too -- however , make sure he does n't lure you into using up your reserve before he does . ''
2131 does-using If it looks like your opponent is using atium , then you 'd better use yours too -- however , make sure he does n't lure you into using up your reserve before he does . ''
2132 does-want Something she does n't even want Sazed to hear ?
2133 does-want `` The Lord Ruler does n't even see it -- he does n't want to . ''
2134 does-wondered I 've wondered if he was the traitor , but that just does n't work .
2135 dogged-reaches He will also make stops later in the week in South Carolina , Iowa and Michigan.The political action committee supporting his election , New Day for America , has already spent more than $ 2 million on television advertising in the Boston market , which reaches into New Hampshire , where a new ad began running on Tuesday.Like Mr. McCain , Mr. Kasich is brusque and often combative - even his own aides describe him , euphemistically , as ` impatient ' - and questions about his temperament have dogged him throughout his career .
2136 doing-reached She reached out tentatively -- not even really sure what she was doing , or why she could even do it .
2137 dominate-participating She was n't participating in the conversation , but seemed to dominate it nonetheless .
2138 done-fallen Ash had fallen during her trip to the city , and though it was done now , its aftermath was visible in small drifts and flurries of black blowing across the town 's streets .
2139 done-froze The damage is mostly done , but I 'd like the war to go on for -- '' He froze in the doorway , blocking Vin 's view .
2140 done-has ` His lack of knowledge in the foreign policy area has been a problem because , well , you want your commander in chief to be confident on those issues , ' said Bruce Perlo , chairman of the Grafton County Republican Committee in New Hampshire.Recognizing the problem , Mr. Walker has joined in hourslong meetings in Washington ; Madison , Wis. ; and elsewhere for tutorials on the Islamic State , Iran , Russia and military and geopolitical confrontations , as well as human rights abuses , border security and immigration policy , and other issues , advisers said.He has relied on Republicans such as former Senator Jim Talent of Missouri , who leads Mr. Walker 's national security advisory council , and Andrew Bremberg , his policy director , who previously was a top aide to the Senate majority leader , Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.In recent months , Mr. Walker has also met or spoken with Prime Ministers Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel as part of a trip to Israel , David Cameron of Britain and Stephen Harper of Canada ; Presidents Xi Jinping of China and Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia ; retired military leaders such as former Gen. David H. Petraeus and former Gen. Jack Keane ; and a number of American and foreign ambassadors.Aides to Mr. Walker provided this list in response to questions about his briefings ; they declined a request to interview Mr. Walker.General Keane , in an email , said he had provided an analysis of global security challenges facing the United States , which he has done for several other candidates from both parties .
2141 done-has But the economy has nonetheless done far better than should have been possible if conservative orthodoxy had any truth to it .
2142 done-is There is no way one person , even an Inquisitor , could have done all this .
2143 done-is Confusion among European leaders about how to deal with the crisis raises questions about the political unity that is essential to the survival of the eurozone.These factors could undermine the positive effects of the bond-buying stimulus program , known as quantitative easing , that the European Central Bank began in March as a way to pump money into the eurozone economy and force down market interest rates.As a result , some analysts , so far apparently a minority , expect Mr. Draghi to send a strong signal on Thursday that the central bank 's Governing Council is ready to step up its bond purchases and continue them longer than currently planned.But any talk of more stimulus would reawaken tensions on the Governing Council between those who think the central bank has already done too much and those who favor aggressive , pre-emptive action .
2144 done-is Confusion among European leaders about how to deal with the crisis raises questions about the political unity that is essential to the survival of the eurozone.These factors could undermine the positive effects of the bond-buying stimulus program , known as quantitative easing , that the European Central Bank began in March as a way to pump money into the eurozone economy and force down market interest rates.As a result , some analysts , so far apparently a minority , expect Mr. Draghi to send a strong signal on Thursday that the central bank 's Governing Council is ready to step up its bond purchases and continue them longer than currently planned.But any talk of more stimulus would reawaken tensions on the Governing Council between those who think the central bank has already done too much and those who favor aggressive , pre-emptive action .
2145 done-killed It had done something , true -- but it certainly had n't killed the Lord Ruler .
2146 done-knowing There was a peace in knowing , however , that she had n't done it out of spite .
2147 done-realize I 'll move slowly and carefully , but by the time I 'm done , the obligators wo n't even realize what they 've lost .
2148 done-shocked Zeldin said that he had done that , for his own part , but that he was not shocked by corruption among lawmakers whom he described as underpaid .
2149 done-spoken She had n't spoken of her own strange abilities , but she had spoken of what the Lord Ruler had done in the throne room .
2150 done-start I was happy to have done it for him , but I did n't start out to do it that way , ' Mr. Hendrix said .
2151 dooming-hurt We already know that scandals can hurt incumbents in House elections , but it does n't come close to dooming them , studies have shown.The issue with Mrs. Clinton 's email account and server does n't yet rise to the level of the scandals counted in the studies on House elections .
2152 doubted-getting Her hair was getting a bit long for her taste -- though somehow she doubted that Sazed was going to let her have it cropped boyishly short .
2153 doubted-said Despite what he said , however , she doubted something that hurt so much could possibly be `` good '' for her .
2154 doubted-strained The Final Empire was strained , but she doubted that it would crack .
2155 dowling-graced The White House eventually issued a statement praising Ms. Dowling 's work , calling it ` always lively and colorful ' and saying it reflected ` not only the season but the unique and historic rooms which they graced .
2156 downed-scowled He scowled , though Vin had trouble determining why , then took the cup and downed half of it in one gulp .
2157 drafting-was It was bright with light ; not even a single day had passed , and Elend was already meeting with skaa and noblemen leaders , drafting a code of laws for his new nation .
2158 draghi-given FRANKFURT - Thursday was supposed to be an occasion for Mario Draghi , the president of the European Central Bank , to take a victory lap.Instead , he may face questions on why he and his policy council are not running even harder , given all the new uncertainties in global and European economies.Mr .
2159 drained-paused Kelsier paused , but he was too drained to feel any anger .
2160 draining-fulfilling This has all been fun , delightful , and all of those other fulfilling emotions , but working with Kelsier can be a bit draining . ''
2161 draw-gain It is not mutually assured destruction ; it is mutually beneficial combat.Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont continues to not only draw the kind of large crowds that other candidates dream of , but also gain ground on Mrs. Clinton in polls .
2162 drawing-generated It is not just Mrs. Clinton 's weakness in the polls that has generated talk of other alternatives , but also the strength of Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont , who is routinely drawing huge crowds at campaign events .
2163 draws-preventing The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to publicly discuss national security matters.Some F.B.I. investigators privately disagree with the intense focus , which draws resources away from other investigations and sometimes has led to frustration inside the bureau and the Justice Department.After years of watching for large-scale plots , investigators are now trying to identify and prevent shootings and stabbings - violence on a scale that is common in major American cities but has never been a priority for the F.B.I. Preventing Islamic State-inspired violence is a priority , and current and former investigators say they feel tremendous pressure to succeed .
2164 dreaded-waited In part , she 'd waited simply because she had dreaded struggling into a noblewoman 's dresses with her bruised arms and wounded side .
2165 dress-re You dress nicely , but on the inside you 're dirty as ash . ''
2166 dressing-silhouetted Vin stood silhouetted by the dark mist , wearing nothing but her dressing undergarments -- a flimsy white shirt and shorts .
2167 drew-flooded He returned to the state on the eve of the 2012 election for his final rally as a candidate , an emotional event that drew 20,000 supporters.Even in a state flooded with candidates seeking to carve out their own legacy , Obama 's advisers know that a presidential visit - with the spectacle of an Air Force One arrival and a big motorcade speeding through the city - still garners attention.Republicans hoping to replace Obama certainly noticed .
2168 drinks-marc And that , of course , would leave less cash for the donors to contribute to the campaign.In the request , the campaign wrestled with the distinctly Washington dilemma of how to provide alcohol and nourishment to a roomful of hungry donors.Marc Elias , a lawyer for the Clinton campaign , argued in the letter to the F.E.C. that if Mrs. Clinton holds a fund-raiser at a hotel or a restaurant -- but does n't explicitly promise the guests any food or drinks -- the donors should be free to buy it themselves without a legal problem .
2169 drive-emerges The other recourse would have been to drive Qaddafi out of power but then '' continue to be involved post-conflict , to help ensure that the government that emerges is a partner . ''
2170 drive-sued ` They 'd get sued , but they could drive a delay through a whole first term .
2171 driven-improve ` Mr. Bush went on to say that education standards should not be federally driven but that the federal government should partner with states to help improve standards .
2172 drizzle-was Above , the cool mists continued to churn , and it had begun to drizzle slightly -- but that was n't much different from the regular nightly humidity .
2173 drop-know `` I know it 's instinctual , Vin , but you do n't have to put your hands forward when you Push -- nor do you have to drop what you 're holding . ''
2174 dropped-stayed -- The White House reported on Wednesday that the number of people without health insurance dropped last year by 8.8 million , to a total of about 33 million , but that income remained stagnant and poverty rates stayed the same .
2175 dropped-surrounding He easily cleared the protective wall surrounding the keep 's grounds , but his body dropped slightly toward the ground as he moved .
2176 dropping-fall He immediately released his hold on the roof , dropping a coin and Pushing against it even as he began to fall .
2177 dubbed-sold A 90-page abridged version of Carson 's best-selling book `` Gifted Hands '' has sold 47,000 copies at $ 20 apiece.Even Carson 's campaign bus - dubbed the `` Healer Hauler '' by his fans and given its own Twitter handle @healerhauler - became a fundraising opportunity .
2178 ducked-shot Vin shot him a glare he could n't see , but ducked her head back inside , waiting with impatient nervousness as the carriage pulled up to the massive keep .
2179 dukakis-regain The paucity of fresh faces even gave rise to a joking Twitter hashtag : #Dukakis 2016 , offering up the party 's 1988 nominee , former Massachusetts Gov. Michael S. Dukakis.Still , Mr. Biden , Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore have lost presidential bids before and are hardly guaranteed party saviors - or more popular than Mrs. Clinton among important demographic groups like women , African-Americans and Hispanics.Indeed , for all of the talk about 2016 fallback plans , Mrs. Clinton remains the front-runner for the nomination , and her comments on Tuesday in an interview with ABC News and in a follow-up message to supporters - saying ` I 'm sorry ' for relying on private email for government business as secretary of state and calling that practice ' a mistake ' - may help assuage concerns among some Democrats about her candidacy.But the chatter could continue if Mrs. Clinton does not quickly regain her footing .
2180 dusted-wore He examined their weapons -- staves for eight of the men , swords for two -- and dusted off a few shoulders , though none of the men wore uniforms .
2181 dwindled-mount The fact that so many are threatened by him is a sign of how the Republican Party ca n't deal with some deviations from conventional thought , '' she said.Those attacks have dwindled of late , no doubt because Paul has struggled to raise money , mount a disciplined campaign and break through the primal roar of the Trump movement .
2182 earned-inherited Some of the donors inherited wealth , but many are self-made : publicity-shy investors who earned billions in high-frequency trading , oilmen made rich by the fracking boom , and entrepreneurs whose bets in the health care industry have made them both wealthy and politically connected .
2183 earned-rally More specifically , the preponderance of undecided voters in those polls have been Republican-leaners who will eventually rally behind the Republican nominee.Recent Fox News , ABC/Washington Post and Marist polls found Mrs. Clinton with a large lead over Jeb Bush , for instance , but Mr. Bush earned no more than 81 percent of the support of Republicans and 69 percent among conservatives in any of the three surveys .
2184 earned-said The $ 53,657 the household in the middle of the income distribution earned last year was down 1.5 percent from the year before , though the census said that shift was not statistically significant.But even if that drop is a statistical blip and you assume that middle-class incomes were really flat , flat is n't anything to celebrate in the current environment .
2185 earned-said He said he would not accept spending bills that maintained tough budget caps he agreed to in 2011 , nor would he loosen budget controls on military spending without relaxing them for domestic programs.But hidden in some of his most ambitious proposals to diminish the wealth gap and remake the corporate tax code are areas of potential compromise that nod to Republican ideas : an expansion of the earned income credit for the working poor , a revitalized Pentagon budget , and a surge in spending on roads , bridges , airports and other infrastructure , financed by a new tax rate on foreign corporate profits.Absent from the plan is any pretense of remaking the main drivers of the long-term debt - Social Security and Medicare - a quest that has long eluded both parties .
2186 easing-reawaken Confusion among European leaders about how to deal with the crisis raises questions about the political unity that is essential to the survival of the eurozone.These factors could undermine the positive effects of the bond-buying stimulus program , known as quantitative easing , that the European Central Bank began in March as a way to pump money into the eurozone economy and force down market interest rates.As a result , some analysts , so far apparently a minority , expect Mr. Draghi to send a strong signal on Thursday that the central bank 's Governing Council is ready to step up its bond purchases and continue them longer than currently planned.But any talk of more stimulus would reawaken tensions on the Governing Council between those who think the central bank has already done too much and those who favor aggressive , pre-emptive action .
2187 easing-s ` Others are betting the E.C.B. will step up quantitative easing , but it 's too early , ' said Carsten Brzeski , chief economist for Germany and Austria at ING Bank .
2188 eat-scrape It was more food than she could possibly eat ; however , she intended to scrape out the barley and save the flatbread , which would keep well should she need it later .
2189 eat-staring He did n't eat , however -- he just sat staring at the blood on the ground before the high table .
2190 eavesdrop-escape She was accustomed to shadows and corners -- close enough to eavesdrop , but far enough away to escape .
2191 eclipsing-embodies What little policy that has been discussed mostly revolves around Mr. Trump 's appeals to anxious white conservatives : stoking fears about immigrants , gang members and foreign countries that , in his telling , are eclipsing the United States.It is a race , in other words , that embodies what Mr. Bush likes least about politics.Mr .
2192 edged-restraining Vin edged closer , trying to hear what they were saying , but Sazed placed a restraining hand on her shoulder .
2193 educated-is It is an inefficient route to victory in any case , out of alignment with today 's Electoral College map : Well-educated , diverse and secular residents of metropolitan areas are more important than traditionally Democratic but conservative voters.None of this is to say that Mrs. Clinton is a weak candidate .
2194 educated-is It is an inefficient route to victory in any case , out of alignment with today 's Electoral College map : Well-educated , diverse and secular residents of metropolitan areas are more important than traditionally Democratic but conservative voters.None of this is to say that Mrs. Clinton is a weak candidate .
2195 educated-is The dollar amount is expected to be disclosed soon.But some potential donors have said in recent weeks that Mr. Walker 's busy schedule was not an issue for them ; rather , they were taking a wait-and-see approach on Mr. Walker.Advisers to Mr. Walker emphasized that policy briefings were not the only important way that he had educated himself on the issues .
2196 electing-latch `` Nearly all the voters drawn to Trump said there were other candidates they would consider supporting , namely Trump 's fellow political novices : retired surgeon Ben Carson and former technology executive Carly Fiorina.For the more experienced politicians in the race , there 's little to latch on , according to voters interviewed.Most other candidates drew barely a mention from Republicans voters , including Kasich , who became a favorite of political insiders after the first debate.One political veteran whose name did come up frequently was former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush - but only to reject the idea of electing a third Bush as president .
2197 elend-frowned Vin frowned , but Elend just continued to read .
2198 elend-kept She wanted to go to Elend , to drop down into the warm room , but ... something kept her back .
2199 elend-sneak Perhaps it had been foolhardy to sneak away from the palace before hearing the details of what had happened , but Elend had n't exactly been thinking carefully at the time .
2200 eliminate-living A family of four earning $ 40,000 or less would pay no federal income tax , according to the Bush campaign.He also would eliminate deductions for state and local taxes because they are `` unfair '' to those living in low-tax states and cap the mortgage interest deduction at 2 percent of adjusted gross income .
2201 emerge-faded Fears have faded that Greece will be forced to drop out of the eurozone , but the country 's economy is still in a shambles and there is uncertainty about whether a stable government will emerge after national elections scheduled for Sept. 20 .
2202 emerged-failed ` ISIS grew out of Al Qaeda in Iraq , ' said Jake Sullivan , the Clinton campaign 's senior policy adviser , ` It emerged in no small part as a result of President Bush 's failed strategy .
2203 emerged-failed Those who failed to cite Roe v. Wade would n't make it to the shortlist.Litmus tests can be problematic , for sure , but let 's be intrigued rather than shocked that opposition to Citizens United has emerged as the latest one .
2204 emerged-posted The two men , for all their earlier closeness in the civil rights movement , represented opposite poles of African-American life in the South : Mr. Lewis was the son of a sharecropper ; Mr. Bond was the son of a college president.On Sunday , Mr. Lewis posted on Twitter : ` We went through a difficult period during our campaign for Congress in 1986 , but many years ago we emerged even closer . '
2205 empowered-is ` Asked if he believed that , given the depth of Iran 's civil society , which in 2009 launched a ` green revolution ' challenging clerical rule , the forces there for greater integration with the world would be empowered by this deal , the president said : ` With respect to Iran , it is a great civilization , but it also has an authoritarian theocracy in charge that is anti-American , anti-Israeli , anti-Semitic , sponsors terrorism , and there are a whole host of real profound differences that we have with them , ' said the president .
2206 enacted-passed Neither measure passed , though another Biden-backed bill that provided increased resources to ease former offenders ' re-entry into the community , the Second Chance Act , was enacted around the same time.Brittany Packnett , a St. Louis-based activist who is a member of Mr. Obama 's 21st Century Policing task force , said that when she and other activists met with Mr. Biden and other White House officials last December , it was apparent that the vice president understood the urgency of the issue .
2207 encompass-falling And if they saw us walking away from what technical experts believe is a legitimate mechanism to ensure that Iran does not have a nuclear weapon - if they saw that our diplomatic efforts were not sincere , or were trying to encompass not just the nuclear program , but every policy disagreement that we might have with Iran , then frankly , those sanctions would start falling apart very rapidly .
2208 encourage-reflects The so-called moderate in Iran is not going to be suddenly somebody who we feel reflects universal issues like human rights , but there are better or worse approaches that Iran can take relative to our interests and the interests of our allies , and we should see where we can encourage that better approach .
2209 end-warn `` Before we end for the evening , however , '' Kelsier continued , `` there is one more part of the plan I want to warn you about . ''
2210 endangers-interpreted Similarly , Ted Cruz and Scott Walker responded to the murder of a sheriff 's deputy in Texas with statements blaming Mr. Obama for increased anti-police language , which they suggested endangers public safety and law enforcement.Some G.O.P. strategists fear that these tactics could be damaging in the general election , but the party 's turn toward a hard-edged message on crime can be interpreted as an attempt to find a noneconomic issue it can use against Democrats .
2211 ending-proclaimed The Defense Strategic Guidance of 2012 proclaimed that the U.S. could afford to draw down the military because the Iraq and Afghanistan wars were ending and al Qaeda was on the run .
2212 ending-said Reagan `` had a bitter hatred of communism , '' Russo said , but `` was dreadfully fearful ... of ending the world with a nuclear holocaust .
2213 endorse-speaks Out of one corner of his routinely scowling mouth , he speaks of a ` jihad ' by the gays to force even stern Christians like him to endorse same-sex marriage .
2214 endorse-spliced `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
2215 endorsed-endorsing He told reporters : ` The prime minister in no way by his meeting endorsed me , but I have no problem endorsing him as a true leader in the fight against the Iranian deal .
2216 endorses-worry More important , Republicans do not want to be targeted by conservative outside groups like Americans for Prosperity , the political advocacy group funded by the libertarian billionaires Charles and David Koch.Tim Phillips , the president of Americans for Prosperity , has said that his group intends to aggressively attack any Republican candidate in the 2016 primaries who endorses carbon regulations.But some Republican strategists worry that the position on climate change that could help win them their party 's nomination could hurt them in a general election , particularly in a contest with a larger number of young and minority voters .
2217 endure-marked The rainwater had marked it , but the tome was obviously designed to endure .
2218 energizing-touch The donors , who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss Biden 's remarks at the private fundraiser , said the vice president offered a lengthy defense of the Obama administration 's nuclear deal with Iran.The donors said Biden did not touch upon Clinton 's campaign but praised Sanders for doing a good job energizing the party .
2219 engaged-mentioned They 'd been engaged , and she 'd never even mentioned that she was an Allomancer .
2220 engaging-mentions ` An analysis of news , blogs and forums by Crimson Hexagon , a nonpartisan social media analytics software company , also found that overall mentions of Mr. Trump in the Spanish-language news media since he announced his candidacy were 69 percent negative , but were less negative - 58 percent - in the English-language news media.Critics of the Spanish-language news coverage , including Mr. Oliver-Méndez , say that the Hispanic press is engaging in advocacy and not journalism .
2221 enhanced-pierce This has the side effect of letting them pierce the mists , allowing them to see much farther at night than even their enhanced senses should have let them .
2222 enhanced-ran A burst of pain ran down his forearm , but his pewter-enhanced bone held .
2223 enhanced-was All was still , even to her enhanced ears .
2224 enjoy-took He gladly took on his rivals , but was unable to bait the moderators into a spat and seemed not to enjoy the evening as much as he had at the first debate .
2225 enrages-veto Mikulski 's decision came a day after Mr. Coons and Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania and several Democrats in the House also announced they would support the deal.With momentum on their side , the White House and Senate Democrats next week hope to find seven more votes to filibuster the Republican resolution of disapproval , something that enrages Republicans , who made ample use of the filibuster when in the minority.Senators Mark S. Kirk , Republican of Illinois , and Robert Menendez , Democrat of New Jersey , both opponents of the current Iran accord , introduced legislation this year that would extend the Iran Sanctions Act , which expires at the end of 2016 , for another decade.While most lawmakers understand the need to have legal authority to ` snap back ' any sanctions that are lifted , Republicans would most likely move to enforce those sanctions , putting Democrats in a bind in an election year by pushing for a vote on legislation to punish Iran for killing Americans and Israelis , and for supporting Hezbollah , leaving the president little choice but to veto because if he signed it , the Iranians would say they are no longer bound by broader agreement.Even if these sanctions are never reimposed , Republicans could use the issue in an effort to divide Democrats in 2016 .
2226 ensnared-waterboarding While they proclaim they do n't want to be on the couch about their misguided dreams of empire , we get ensnared in their 'Em pire ' - style psychodramas.And consider this : Jeb has n't even been asked any questions yet about W. 's dark contributions on waterboarding , the deficit and the near-total collapse of the American economy .
2227 entailed-plotted Eighty percent of those arrested are younger than 30 , and 40 percent are under 21 , he said.In early July , Mr. Comey said the authorities had thwarted multiple attacks being plotted for July 4 by the Islamic State and its sympathizers in the United States , though he did not say what the plots entailed or how many people had been arrested .
2228 enter-handled Clinton and her supporters have handled Mr. Biden gingerly , but they are skeptical he would enter the race to a surge of excitement .
2229 entered-rank Camon rose as the prelan entered , a sign of respect -- something even the highest of Great House noblemen would show to an obligator of Laird 's rank .
2230 entering-implode ` If party leaders see a scenario next winter where Bernie Sanders has a real chance at the Democratic nomination , I think there 's no question that leaders will reach out to Vice President Biden or Secretary of State Kerry or even Gore about entering the primaries , ' said Garnet F. Coleman , a Texas state lawmaker and Democratic national committeeman.Even if none of those Democrats were to announce candidacies this fall , some party officials and strategists suggested that Mr. Biden could be laying the groundwork for an 11th-hour rescue mission during the winter primaries if Mrs. Clinton 's campaign began to implode .
2231 entertain-meant She said he meant that border security was a legitimate issue.But the fact he appeared to entertain the notion of a northern wall brought a swift response .
2232 entertain-refused ` Mr. Cox had refused even to entertain pleas of life without parole in homicide cases for which he deemed death the only fitting remedy .
2233 entertains-s She 's even done well sitting in on tea meetings when Renoux entertains noble guests .
2234 enticed-training Reen 's training told her that these men were fools , but she was tempted , enticed , by the possibility that Kelsier and the others offered .
2235 enticing-look Indeed , she was hardly enticing ; scrawny with a youthful face , she supposedly did n't even look her sixteen years .
2236 envy-was Their pitiful life , however , was not something even plantation skaa would envy .
2237 eradicate-ve ` We do n't expect to eradicate crime , but we 've made a political promise that we 're going to stop every act of terrorism , ' Mr. Durkin said .
2238 eradicated-heading The state faced that shortfall heading into this year , but Walker signed a budget in July that eradicated it.Walker says he is someone who will take on the special interests in Washington and fight for average Americans .
2239 ernie-hide My high school physics probably is n't equal to Ernie Moniz 's , but I do remember it 's not that easy to suddenly just hide potentially radioactive material that 's been developed .
2240 erode-unfolds Her support could erode even further as the campaign unfolds , or as she comes under new scrutiny , be it for foreign donations to the Clinton Foundation , her private email account as secretary of state or new issues.As many analysts predicted , her high ratings were unsustainable - her popularity the product of serving as the country 's top diplomat , partly shielded from domestic political criticism .
2241 escape-shan Vin glanced to the side , trying to escape , but Shan was standing right before her .
2242 established-scheduled Local elections are scheduled to start in two months , but they can not begin until the new provinces are established .
2243 estimated-reported The Kaiser Family Foundation reported even higher usage , 10.7 percent , in 2011-13 , when the number of women in this age group reached an estimated 62 million.When I asked some of the prominent Republican candidates to detail their positions on contraception , they were reluctant to get into specifics .
2244 estimated-vote Eligible voters of Mexican origin had an even lower turnout , 42 percent.An estimated 5.4 million Latinos are eligible to become American citizens but have yet to take that step , making them by far the largest pool of non-naturalized immigrants who could become eligible to vote by 2016 .
2245 evolved-s ` It 's not an issue anymore because we 've evolved , ' said John Reagan , a Republican state senator in New Hampshire .
2246 excited-lacking Yeden looked excited ; he really was an earnest man , and that much Kelsier could respect , even if he was a bit lacking in presence .
2247 excited-showing Some appeared surprised , even excited , when they saw Kelsier , though his scars were not showing .
2248 exclusives-strike His team has even sought to flatter the neoconservative Washington Free Beacon , offering the site exclusives about Mr. Paul 's bill to eliminate American aid to the Palestinians which the Free Beacon noted promptly came hours before he was to meet with Jewish donors.But when challenged , Mr. Paul can also strike a pugilistic note .
2249 excused-waned The conversation waned , however , and Telden eventually excused himself .
2250 execute-was They were noblemen , so Venture could n't execute them , but he was very fond of the more brutal disciplinary forms .
2251 executed-inherited `` When I first inherited this land from my father , I had a few runaways -- but I executed their families .
2252 exhilarated-worried He was worried , he was pained , but he was also exhilarated .
2253 exist-have My trainer , Gemmel , said that a gold shadow was a person who did n't exist -- but could have .
2254 existed-recognize There was no way the man would be able to recognize her -- he did n't even know she existed .
2255 existed-skaa He could n't afford to have half-breed children running around -- children who might possess powers that skaa were n't even supposed to know existed ... .
2256 existing-prove To repeal the Affordable Care Act , a Republican president would need to persuade Congress to disrupt existing health insurance for millions of Americans.Even policies subject to more executive control , under presidents with sharp ideological edges , often prove resistant to change .
2257 expected-sending She 'd known that they 'd be sending out a barge this day , but she had n't expected Kelsier to go with it .
2258 expected-worked Camon had simply worked faster than anyone , even Vin , had expected .
2259 expire-kicked Taxes on the top 1 percent went up substantially in 2013 , both because some of the Bush tax cuts were allowed to expire and because new taxes associated with Obamacare kicked in .
2260 explained-fed He explained that the men who joined with them would have to leave family and friends for a time -- as long as a year -- but would be fed well during that time .
2261 exploded-happened She should n't have exploded at Kelsier , but everything that had happened ... the fight , Elend 's betrayal ... it just left her feeling frustrated .
2262 exploit-is She is very obedient , but is quick to exploit mistakes or misunderstandings .
2263 expose-said `` That many meetings will expose us even more , '' Yeden said .
2264 exposing-throw What can we do that would be so threatening that it would throw the nobility into chaos , maybe even get the palace guard out into the city , exposing them to our troops ?
2265 express-wondered She wondered about such things often , though she did n't express her worries to the others .
2266 expressed-s ` There 's a genuine fondness for the vice president , but I do n't think there 's a yearning for him to get in the race , ' said former Gov. Jim Hodges of South Carolina.Still , Mrs. Clinton 's closest aides have privately expressed concerns that the campaign would have to spend heavily to defeat Mr. Biden in a primary .
2267 extended-implied She was n't even certain what rank they implied , but they extended all the way back to the obligator 's ears and up over his forehead .
2268 extinguished-seemed Her fear puffed out like an extinguished candle , and even her pain seemed unimportant .
2269 extracting-stoop Extracting a promise would violate deeply held cultural and political norms.But experienced political players are much too sophisticated to have to stoop to such crude tactics .
2270 eyed-scrambling Vin eyed his hand , but did n't take it , instead scrambling down on her own .
2271 eyed-seemed She eyed a yellow gown , but it just seemed a little too ... perky .
2272 eyed-speaking Sazed eyed her suspiciously , but let her go as Renoux began speaking quietly to him .
2273 face-have ` The governor should step up and face the serious cases of corruption that have occurred under her watch , ' said the state 's Democratic Party chairwoman , Deb Haaland , although none of the recent cases have been proved in court .
2274 face-have The other nine thousand might have to face a few Great House guard squads and the palace soldiers , but our men should have the upper hand in numbers . ''
2275 face-prevail Jeb Bush will face persistent resistance from the party 's conservative wing , even if his combination of superior resources and just enough appeal could allow him to prevail in a protracted fight .
2276 faced-scarred He faced the soldiers defiantly , however , his scarred arms plainly visible .
2277 faces-manage But too many texts can cause a much more visceral reaction - perhaps turning off a voter completely and irrevocably.Excess ` can be unforgivable on text , ' said Laura Olin , who helped manage the Obama campaign 's text messaging in 2012 , ` because you are getting into people 's faces . '
2278 faded-silenced And Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey did well in the final hour , other than an off-note when he silenced Mrs. Fiorina.Ben Carson , who rose in the polls after the Fox News debate last month , had some strong moments , but a tortured response on his view about the decision to go to war with Iraq did n't help his case.As for the rest , they mostly faded into the shadows of Mr. Reagan 's Air Force One plane behind them .
2279 fail-trained `` A large number of skaa rebellions fail because their men are poorly trained .
2280 failed-losing The plan failed , but Mr. Graham has made the case that Republicans are in danger of further losing Hispanic support because of opposition to immigration reform.Strategists say that fund-raising will be an obstacle for Mr. Graham but that if his candidacy gains traction he could benefit from South Carolina 's status as a the second state to hold a primary .
2281 failed-tried And , in one instance , the House failed miserably to pass a tax increase even after locking its members into the chamber for hours while leaders tried to threaten some into changing their votes.On Thursday afternoon , Gov. Sam Brownback stood before his fellow Republicans , who dominate the Legislature , to deliver what seemed to be a mix of a basketball coach 's pep talk and a scorned lover 's plea .
2282 failed-tried He tried , but he failed .
2283 failed-tried She tried to spin and hit feet-first , but she crashed into a stone pillar at a terrible speed , and pewter failed her .
2284 failed-was `` It was a good try , but we failed . ''
2285 failed-was ` Mr. Perry was making his second consecutive run for the presidency but it failed to catch fire , and in recent weeks his small cadre of advisers had been discussing whether he should drop out of the race .
2286 fails-spread `` The rebellion fails because it 's too unwieldy and spread out .
2287 fall-seen She had seen snow on some distant peaks , but she had rarely seen it fall -- and even then it was usually just an icy slush .
2288 fallen-pushed She Pushed reflexively with her steel , but her trajectory was off ; she had fallen to the side of the ingot , not directly toward it .
2289 falling-remaining Some of the remaining peasants fought desperately , but they were falling almost as quickly .
2290 falling-seem Some noble houses were falling , but there did n't seem to be the air of general chaos that Kelsier had wanted .
2291 farr-testified Together , these trends resulted in a 10 percent swing in voting power , Mr. Lichtman testified.But Mr. Farr , a private lawyer hired by the state for this case , said there was no proof that the curtailed election practices were responsible for the rise in black registration , which he said may have been partly driven by excitement over the candidacy of Barack Obama.It was no coincidence , the plaintiffs argued , that the legislature adopted the sweeping law only weeks after the Supreme Court decision , Shelby County v. Holder , which ended federal oversight.Freed of that oversight , the legislature , giving vague reasons of efficiency and protecting electoral integrity , immediately rolled out what experts said was the broadest range of cutbacks seen in any state in recent years .
2292 favors-posed On health care , traditionally an issue that favors Democrats by double digit margins , the Democrats had only a 6 point edge.The Republican advantage on national security and terrorism is of particular importance because of the growing political salience of the threat posed by the Islamic State militant organization , known as ISIS .
2293 favors-tends So far , the Electoral Commission 's recommendations would increase the representation of less populated rural areas relative to that of more populated urban areas , which favors BN because it tends to fare better than the opposition in Sarawak 's rural parts.A member of the state assembly from the People 's Justice Party and an individual representing a group of voters have challenged the Sarawak redistricting in court , claiming , among other things , that its lack of transparency violates their constitutional rights .
2294 fawning-overthrowing Overthrowing the empire might have been your dream once -- but now you 've become a good little skaa , staying in your shop and fawning over noblemen when they visit . ''
2295 fear-go Thieves and soldiers go out at night , but they fear it nonetheless .
2296 fear-know `` I fear even the Keepers know little of them .
2297 fed-were However , this was a people who had been fed on nothing but soup and gruel since they were children .
2298 fed-were We 're going to give you an army of well-equipped , well-fed men -- and I 'll be damned if I 'm going to let you get them slaughtered because they were never taught which end of the sword to hold . ''
2299 feeds-retro WASHINGTON - Even a presidential candidate 's most devoted supporters could be forgiven for trying to tune out the torrent of campaign emails , Twitter messages , Facebook posts , Instagrams and Snapchats that steadily flood voters ' inboxes and social-media feeds in this digitized , pixelated , endlessly streaming election cycle.But a text message is different.A text message - despite its no-frills , retro essence - is something personal .
2300 feel-flared She flared her copper , but -- as always -- she could still slightly feel the Lord Ruler 's oppressive hand .
2301 feel-happen I feel strong now , but what will happen when I touch that power ?
2302 feel-ingested She could n't feel any metals , not even the one she had ingested moments before .
2303 feel-killed She could feel it , though it was n't as powerful as it had been earlier , when he had killed Kelsier .
2304 feel-pleading More than 27,000 turned out in Los Angeles.What gives texting its political power is its ability to cut through a lot of other advertising noise : targeted posts on Facebook and Twitter , web video commercials and the pitter-patter of emails pleading for campaign contributions.A text message , by contrast , offers the nearest thing a candidate can get to ensuring that a message will be opened and read.Texting can also be useful in reaching younger voters , who can be harder to contact through other means.As commonplace as they have become , though , text messages still feel somewhat personal and intrusive .
2305 feel-rest When they finally stopped to rest , however , she 'd feel it .
2306 feeling-searching However , his fingers -- always searching , even when he was barely conscious -- had been feeling the walls .
2307 feels-is He is a marvelous actor , but he feels very uncomfortable with people knowing the specifics of how he took Lord Renoux 's place .
2308 feels-is Is that because he feels guilty for what happened to me ? ''
2309 feels-is He is a marvelous actor , but he feels very uncomfortable with people knowing the specifics of how he took Lord Renoux 's place .
2310 feels-is Is that because he feels guilty for what happened to me ? ''
2311 feign-makes Noblemen feign nonchalance , but the mist makes them uncomfortable . ''
2312 fell-shuffled The skaa worker fell hard , but eventually picked himself back up and shuffled to the end of the line .
2313 fell-spun The passing guards spun with surprise , but their faces soon became indistinct as Vin fell back down toward the ground .
2314 fell-stopped The square fell horribly silent -- even the Inquisitor stopped his gruesome work .
2315 fellise-happening It was still midday , but there were n't any important events happening until the evening , so she had nowhere to go but back to Fellise .
2316 felt-go Vin felt that she should have left as well , but she had nowhere to go .
2317 felt-have Felt thinks she 's a thief , but there have to be other reasons a group like that would send someone to balls .
2318 felt-have It felt like a Steelpush , slamming against the metals inside her stomach -- but of course it could n't have been that .
2319 felt-leave She had n't been willing to leave ; however , she also had n't felt the need to become familiar with the other crewmembers .
2320 felt-seem She felt at her Allomantic reserve , but the stud 's metal did n't seem to do anything different .
2321 felt-seemed He seemed to think it was his teaching , but Vin felt it was something else .
2322 felt-snapped Vin felt a moment of panic , but Sazed 's lessons snapped quickly into her mind .
2323 felt-themed Trump , who received draft deferments through much of the Vietnam War , told the author of a coming biography that he nevertheless ` always felt that I was in the military ' because of his education at a military-themed boarding school.As Mr. Biden made his way through a Labor Day parade in Pittsburgh , the crowd repeatedly shouted their hopes that he would seek the Democratic nomination .
2324 felt-told `` I told him that it was because their believers had something they felt passionate about .
2325 felt-told Trump , who received draft deferments through much of the Vietnam War , told the author of a coming biography that he nevertheless ` always felt that I was in the military ' because of his education at a military-themed boarding school.As Mr. Biden made his way through a Labor Day parade in Pittsburgh , the crowd repeatedly shouted their hopes that he would seek the Democratic nomination .
2326 felt-ventilated The room was well ventilated , but she still felt hot beneath the layers of fabric .
2327 felt-was He seemed to think it was his teaching , but Vin felt it was something else .
2328 felt-was The room was well ventilated , but she still felt hot beneath the layers of fabric .
2329 felt-was It was definitely the boldest choice , but that felt right .
2330 felt-was The air resistance fluttered her dress , and she felt like she was trying to pull a bale of cloth behind her , but her Allomancy was strong enough to deal with that .
2331 felt-was He smiled despite the grief he felt at the deaths of his men ; he smiled because that was what he did .
2332 felt-was I felt so sick that I could barely function -- all because I thought that Valette was a traitor . ''
2333 felt-was `` I told him that it was because their believers had something they felt passionate about .
2334 felt-was His Soothing was so strong that she could n't even feel terror -- all she felt was the deep , overpowering , horrible sorrow .
2335 fertilized-is The copper IUD may prevent implantation of a fertilized egg , although this is rare .
2336 feruchemy-fueled He used one of the attributes only available to Feruchemy -- that of changing his age -- but fueled it with Allomancy instead .
2337 feruchemy-is But , Allomancy is n't even mentioned in reference to Feruchemy .
2338 fetched-quipped `` Maybe they 'd make a good ticket together , '' she quipped over breakfast at a local market.Other Democrats said they liked Sanders ' calls for free college tuition and better wages for the middle class.But some shared the view of 30-year-old Aaron Singleton of Canton , who said Sanders ' plans seem `` so far-fetched as to how he 's going to implement them . ''
2339 fight-re They 're not all the most admirable people , but ... '' `` They fight the Final Empire , in their own way , '' Kelsier said .
2340 fight-were Hazekillers were n't Allomancers , but they were trained to fight Mistings and Mistborn .
2341 fight-were The beggars here were even more pathetic -- these were the sorry individuals who were too wretched to fight themselves a spot in a major square .
2342 fighting-s `` Strength is a big part of fighting , but it 's not the only part .
2343 figure-straighten ` We are going to take the lessons of the heartland , ' he said here Tuesday , ` and straighten out Washington , D.C. ` But first , voters must figure out who Mr. Kasich is .
2344 figured-have He would have a Soother with him for a good deal of the time , but there would be an opening near the middle of the night when Marsh figured he would have a good hour alone .
2345 figured-re We think we 've figured them out , but we 're hasty and they 're slippery .
2346 figured-re We think we 've figured them out , but we 're hasty and they 're slippery .
2347 file-procrastinating Call them tardy tax filers : an estimated 1.8 million households that got subsidies for their premiums last year but failed to file a 2014 tax return as required by the law , or left out key IRS paperwork.Because of coordination issues between the IRS and marketplaces like HealthCare.gov , consumers who keep procrastinating into the fall are taking chances with their financial aid , according to insurers and the tax agency .
2348 file-requested Called Form 8962 , it was new for this year 's tax filing season.-About 710,000 households that did not file a 2014 return by the tax-filing deadline , although they were legally required to account for health insurance tax credits.-Some 360,000 households that got tax credits and requested an extension to file their returns .
2349 filed-recheck `` We want to make sure they do n't have a gap in affordable coverage , '' said Lori Lodes , communications director for HealthCare.gov.HealthCare.gov will also recheck IRS data in late December.But the backstop only works if the customer actually filed .
2350 fill-remember Second , remember that as loud as Scripture talks , money talks even louder , and some gays have oodles of it.Let 's fill in a bit of background .
2351 filled-hesitate I hesitate to go and leave you , but that room will be filled with the self-important servants of the high nobility .
2352 financed-imperil Mr. Jeffries would not have to give up his seat in Congress to run , but a divisive Democratic primary battle could imperil the good will he has built up in the party , and undermine the congressman 's glide path in Washington.With the buzz surrounding Mr. Jeffries 's aspirations approaching a fever pitch , the Rev. Al Sharpton , one of the mayor 's most influential supporters , offered the congressman some sober advice in a huddle earlier this summer , on the sidelines of a rally for Mr. Sharpton 's National Action Network.According to people familiar with the conversation , who spoke about a private meeting on the condition of anonymity , Mr. Sharpton emphasized that driving an incumbent out of City Hall is never easy - even for a young , charming and well-financed politician like Mr. Jeffries .
2353 find-has But he has nonetheless raised doubts about his preparedness for a presidential campaign.Early on , he ` punted ' on questions about evolution ; he said he did not know whether President Obama was a Christian ; he argued that his experience facing down protesters in Madison prepared him to defeat the Islamic State ; and he quickly shifted positions on ethanol and immigration to align with the preferences of Iowa voters.More recently , Mr. Walker has struggled to find the right balance between appealing to the party 's conservative base and the rest of the party , particularly electability-minded donors .
2354 find-has It has a level of brashness that you might find appealing , but you would find the theology simplistic . ''
2355 find-has The law also included a stringent voter ID requirement that has since been softened and was not included in the current trial.The ` cumulative impact ' of all these changes at once imposed a burden on minority voters that is illegal under the Voting Rights Act and also the 14th and 15th Amendments , said Daniel T. Donovan , a lawyer with Kirkland and Ellis who was arguing on behalf of the North Carolina N.A.A.C.P.But an expert testifying for the state , Trey Hood , a political scientist at the University of Georgia , said he could find no evidence that the altered rules hampered black voting in 2014 .
2356 find-sazed `` People often say that , '' Sazed said , `` but I find that it is rarely true .
2357 find-sitting You may find this information surprising , but sitting in the back of a room reading books in the dark does n't exactly help one become a better dancer . ''
2358 find-were Both were difficult in the Final Empire , especially in Luthadel , but she would find a way , if she had to .
2359 finding-keith Amalgamated , officials at the now-closed super PAC said , was willing to underwrite the loan against the flow of future contributions.Keith Mestrich , a former union official who became the bank 's president last year , said in an interview that he could not discuss specific clients , but that finding creative ways to serve allies effectively was important to the bank 's mission .
2360 finished-include The Chicago library will include an office for the president , but aides said the Obamas could live in Washington while Sasha , 14 , their younger daughter , finished high school here .
2361 finished-relaxed Vin relaxed but remained where she was , standing beside a line of mostly finished chairs .
2362 finished-ve We 've had a setback , true -- but we 're hardly finished . ''
2363 fix-was It was a good life -- a bit unexciting , but her eventual return to Allomancy would fix that .
2364 fix-write `` Well , '' Yeden said dryly , `` if you 're listing problems we 'll have to overcome , you should write up there that we 're all bloody insane -- though I doubt we can fix that fact . ''
2365 flared-showed Her flared iron , however , showed her something else .
2366 flared-slammed Vin slammed into a tree , but she flared pewter and ignored the pain .
2367 flared-was She flared her iron , but it was barely enough to catch a glimpse of him disappearing again in the distance .
2368 flared-was Vin flared pewter in response , but the item was simply a pink-and-white handkerchief .
2369 flared-was She flared copper , gasping slightly , but was n't completely able to push the Lord Ruler off of her emotions .
2370 flaring-forced Vin cried out in pain , flaring her pewter , pushing back , but Kar forced her to her feet .
2371 flaring-get Flaring pewter , he jumped forward , trying an experimental dagger swipe , but he could n't get inside his opponent 's defenses .
2372 flaring-run Not only would you run out of it very quickly , but perpetually flaring metals does ... strange things to people . ''
2373 flayed-was I was even flayed once , near the beginning . ''
2374 flew-had She had no Allomancy , but she flew true anyway , her months of practice helping despite her lack of metals .
2375 flew-kept The items always flew in straight lines , but he kept moving , Pushing himself around , keeping them in the air , periodically shooting them at the Inquisitor .
2376 flickering-tossed He tossed a coin even as he jumped , the tiny bit of metal flickering through the darkness and fog .
2377 floated-warmth Mist floated in the air , prevalent as ever , though the balcony was close enough to the keep 's warmth that the mist was weak .
2378 fly-was Some rumors claimed that Mistborn could fly , but that was a wistful exaggeration .
2379 focus-reminded Vin tried to focus on her surroundings , but this only reminded her of how rich the furnishings were .
2380 focus-singled She had to try hard to focus on the one she was interested in , but the table was the one closest to her , so she eventually singled out the appropriate voices .
2381 focused-muddled She focused as hard as she could , but her sense of the metals seemed ... muddled .
2382 focused-say Strange to say , however , Mr. Bush has n't focused on what 's truly vicious and absurd - viciously absurd ?
2383 follow-threatens If their bills become law , the defense appropriations will follow.But the president threatens to hold the defense budget hostage to a demand that spending for domestic programs also be unleashed from the sequester process .
2384 followed-had Vin followed in a nervous crouch ; the room seemed empty , but there had to be other guards .
2385 followed-had It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
2386 followed-knew Vin followed , but she knew what she 'd see .
2387 followed-nudging Breeze rolled his eyes , nudging Dockson and nodding toward the front of the building , but Vin and Ham -- with pewter -- easily followed Kelsier up to the roof .
2388 followed-sazed Slowly , the rest of the crew followed him -- though Clubs , Sazed , and the apprentices remained with the safe house .
2389 following-preaching He was murdered by a local king for preaching discord -- something he was apparently very good at -- but that only made his following larger .
2390 follows-omitted It breaks down as follows : - About 760,000 households that got tax credits and filed their tax returns , but omitted a new form that is the key to accounting for the subsidies .
2391 force-look She could probably force her way into the conference , but it would look bad .
2392 forced-jumped The hazekiller jumped back , however , and forced Kelsier away with a swing of his cane .
2393 forced-lived Most skaa lived lives of drudgery on the plantations ; even those who lived in a city were generally forced to do menial labor .
2394 forced-speak He did not want to speak to me , of course , but I forced him .
2395 forcing-train `` I see the importance of sending Hammond to train the soldiers -- but honestly , what is the reason for forcing Dockson and myself to go and visit them ? ''
2396 forged-search Our forged family lines will survive passing scrutiny , but if someone were to actually send messengers to search out her holdings ... '' Kelsier frowned .
2397 forget-lives I love this idea , ' said Manijeh Akbari , a 60-year-old who lives in the western neighborhood of Saadat Abad , ` but the city should n't forget the sidewalks need to be cleaned as well .
2398 forget-see Do n't forget the ash because you see a little silk .
2399 forgive-shook Beatings , she could perhaps forgive , but this ... Dockson shook his head .
2400 forgive-understand `` My lord , '' Tevidian said , `` forgive me , but I do not understand .
2401 forgiven-is ` The presidential election is , of course , in 2016 , but Mr. Sanders can be forgiven for living in the moment .
2402 forgiven-is WASHINGTON - Even a presidential candidate 's most devoted supporters could be forgiven for trying to tune out the torrent of campaign emails , Twitter messages , Facebook posts , Instagrams and Snapchats that steadily flood voters ' inboxes and social-media feeds in this digitized , pixelated , endlessly streaming election cycle.But a text message is different.A text message - despite its no-frills , retro essence - is something personal .
2403 forgiven-is WASHINGTON - Even a presidential candidate 's most devoted supporters could be forgiven for trying to tune out the torrent of campaign emails , Twitter messages , Facebook posts , Instagrams and Snapchats that steadily flood voters ' inboxes and social-media feeds in this digitized , pixelated , endlessly streaming election cycle.But a text message is different.A text message - despite its no-frills , retro essence - is something personal .
2404 forgoing-rising ` Hillary Clinton stopped making calls to her own super PAC donors long enough to call for an end to super PACs , ' said Jeff Bechdel , a spokesman for America Rising , a conservative super PAC.But Democrats say forgoing super PAC money would be tantamount to handing the election to Republicans , erasing any chance for reform.To that end , Mrs. Clinton frequently tells donors that the only way to enact her plan and reform the system is to elect a Democrat .
2405 forgot-s Despite all of the week 's activities , however , he never forgot his conversation with Ham .
2406 forgotten-hail The 2012 contest took longer to decide , in part because those states were pushed back in the calendar and did n't vote while the race was competitive , but Mr. Romney fought his way to the nomination with wins in Ohio , Michigan , New Hampshire and Florida.The blue-state Republicans are often forgotten because the Republicans who control the House and Senate tend to hail from the red states and districts where the G.O.P. wins elections .
2407 forgotten-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
2408 forgotten-s You 've forgotten what that is , but it 's so nice ... .
2409 forgotten-was The 2012 contest took longer to decide , in part because those states were pushed back in the calendar and did n't vote while the race was competitive , but Mr. Romney fought his way to the nomination with wins in Ohio , Michigan , New Hampshire and Florida.The blue-state Republicans are often forgotten because the Republicans who control the House and Senate tend to hail from the red states and districts where the G.O.P. wins elections .
2410 forgotten-was It was a small item , but Vin had not forgotten it .
2411 fought-waited We waited and watched , even as he fought for us .
2412 fought-were The 2012 contest took longer to decide , in part because those states were pushed back in the calendar and did n't vote while the race was competitive , but Mr. Romney fought his way to the nomination with wins in Ohio , Michigan , New Hampshire and Florida.The blue-state Republicans are often forgotten because the Republicans who control the House and Senate tend to hail from the red states and districts where the G.O.P. wins elections .
2413 fought-were `` We fought our way into the palace , but there were Inquisitors .
2414 fought-were Some of the remaining peasants fought desperately , but they were falling almost as quickly .
2415 found-illustrates Investigators have found no evidence that the gunman , Mohammod Abdulazeez , was in contact with the Islamic State , but they say they believe that he watched terrorist videos on the Internet , most likely making him the kind of self-radicalized killer that the F.B.I. is trying to stop.An event this spring in Boston illustrates how the authorities now react faster to potential violence , Mr. Comey said.In May , counterterrorism investigators began surveillance of Usaamah Abdullah Rahim , a 26-year-old man who been in touch with the Islamic State online .
2416 found-insisted Talent nonetheless insisted that '' the mission is going well '' and further declared that the invasion was justified even when no weapons of mass destruction were found .
2417 found-s ` Whether the person voted in two or eight or 12 elections , Trump leads , ' Mr. Aida said.His falloff in support when infrequent voters were sifted out was not unique : Support for some of Mr. Trump 's rivals , including Mr. Bush and Mr. Carson , declined by similar amounts , or even more , among the most frequent voters , Civis found.Mr .
2418 found-s He seemed to know as much about the Lord Ruler 's mythology as he did about other religions , though it seemed odd to her that he would study the very religion he found so oppressive .
2419 found-s And that 's not so much because a recent survey found that as many as 60 percent of Americans now support same-sex marriage .
2420 found-searched She searched desperately inside , but she found nothing .
2421 found-sifted ` Whether the person voted in two or eight or 12 elections , Trump leads , ' Mr. Aida said.His falloff in support when infrequent voters were sifted out was not unique : Support for some of Mr. Trump 's rivals , including Mr. Bush and Mr. Carson , declined by similar amounts , or even more , among the most frequent voters , Civis found.Mr .
2422 found-vin Perhaps another might have found the room cramped and spartan , but to Vin it seemed lavish .
2423 found-were ` Whether the person voted in two or eight or 12 elections , Trump leads , ' Mr. Aida said.His falloff in support when infrequent voters were sifted out was not unique : Support for some of Mr. Trump 's rivals , including Mr. Bush and Mr. Carson , declined by similar amounts , or even more , among the most frequent voters , Civis found.Mr .
2424 found-were ` An analysis of news , blogs and forums by Crimson Hexagon , a nonpartisan social media analytics software company , also found that overall mentions of Mr. Trump in the Spanish-language news media since he announced his candidacy were 69 percent negative , but were less negative - 58 percent - in the English-language news media.Critics of the Spanish-language news coverage , including Mr. Oliver-Méndez , say that the Hispanic press is engaging in advocacy and not journalism .
2425 found-were We found one man dead on the roof , but we are n't sure if there were others in the team or not . ''
2426 frowning-smiled Vin paused , frowning slightly , but Sazed just smiled .
2427 frustrated-were The daily life of a noblewoman frustrated her , but her memories of that one night were alluring .
2428 fudge-squaring This particular fudge will become more difficult if the Supreme Court makes same-sex marriage the law of the entire land , but Marco has a better chance of squaring that circle than Rand Paul does.Rand speaks in riddles .
2429 fueling-unified A unified party could spend millions - even hundreds of millions - attacking Mr. Trump , criticizing him in the media and fueling his eventual opponent .
2430 fulfilled-was The information was useless to him , but his true purpose -- finding out about House Renoux -- had already been fulfilled .
2431 function-thought I felt so sick that I could barely function -- all because I thought that Valette was a traitor . ''
2432 galloping-maintain Slower than a galloping horse , certainly , but surely a horse could n't maintain such a gallop for very long .
2433 galvanize-spawned WASHINGTON - Since the attacks of Sept. 11 , 2001 , American counterterrorism officials have increased security at national landmarks and large public events ahead of major holidays or significant anniversaries , and issued bulletins calling for increased vigilance by the public.But this Fourth of July weekend has spawned particularly strong warnings about a potential attack as the federal authorities and national security experts say the United States is more susceptible now because of tactics chosen for recent terrorist strikes by the Islamic State.Officials cite an increased effort by the Islamic State to galvanize its sympathizers in the United States and elsewhere since Memorial Day and during this Ramadan season to carry out acts of violence on their own - so-called lone-wolf attacks .
2434 gasped-were Several people gasped in horror , though most of them were too stunned to make a sound .
2435 gasping-push She flared copper , gasping slightly , but was n't completely able to push the Lord Ruler off of her emotions .
2436 gather-gave But Mrs. Clinton and the other Democratic candidates have raised most of their cash directly to their campaigns , from a much larger number of donors giving relatively smaller checks.A few donors , with strong ties to various Republican circles , gave to more than one candidate : Annette Simmons , widow of the billionaire and major Republican donor Harold Simmons , gave $ 100,000 each to groups backing Mr. Walker and Mr. Bush.Many of the country 's biggest donors are not only financial peers but also friends , members of an elite class of contributors who gather at events like the Club for Growth 's annual Palm Beach retreat on the right , and the closed-door meetings of the Democracy Alliance on the left .
2437 gather-gave But Mrs. Clinton and the other Democratic candidates have raised most of their cash directly to their campaigns , from a much larger number of donors giving relatively smaller checks.A few donors , with strong ties to various Republican circles , gave to more than one candidate : Annette Simmons , widow of the billionaire and major Republican donor Harold Simmons , gave $ 100,000 each to groups backing Mr. Walker and Mr. Bush.Many of the country 's biggest donors are not only financial peers but also friends , members of an elite class of contributors who gather at events like the Club for Growth 's annual Palm Beach retreat on the right , and the closed-door meetings of the Democracy Alliance on the left .
2438 gather-kill Her goal this infiltration was n't to kill , but to gather information , then run .
2439 gathered-lay They 'd gathered nearly seven thousand troops before this fiasco , but now most of them lay dead .
2440 gathered-wanted It was never my main goal -- I gathered this crew because I wanted to change things .
2441 gathering-prove Gathering this many people was an enormous undertaking -- but , in a way , doing things like this simply worked to prove how powerful the Lord Ruler was .
2442 gave-interrupt She paused , not wanting to interrupt , but he gave her one of his characteristic smiles .
2443 gave-passed He gave her a half wave of farewell , but he had his book open before she passed the first step .
2444 gave-snapped ` Your brother 's administration gave us Barack Obama , because it was such a disaster , ' Mr. Trump snapped at one point .
2445 gave-thanked Then , the Lord Ruler thanked her because she was the one who gave you away !
2446 gave-weigh The kid has to weigh less than half what I do , but she gave me a decent pummeling anyway . ''
2447 genuflect-thinks Indeed , Mr. Bush 's hapless attempt at a takedown suggests that his political team still does n't get it , and thinks that pointing out The Donald 's heresies will be enough to doom his campaign.But Mr. Trump , who is self-financing , did n't need to genuflect to the big money , and it turns out that the base does n't mind his heresies .
2448 get-have In 2009 , worn down by the long and unpopular Iraq war undertaken by Mr. Bush , about 53 percent of Republicans said the United States should ` mind its own business ' internationally and let other countries get along the best they can on their own , according to a Pew Research Center survey.But the shocking images of terrorism and Mr. Obama 's approach to them have set off much concern among Republican voters , said Senator Kelly Ayotte , Republican of New Hampshire .
2449 get-have He was n't going to stay at the caves for long , so sending a messenger back would have been a bit silly -- as an Allomancer , he might even be able to get back before a man on horseback .
2450 get-have You 'll recover -- you 'll even get better at pushing yourself like this -- but right now you just have to keep burning the pewter and stay awake .
2451 get-have We may not get to his reserves , but this will eventually have the same effect .
2452 get-have With Labor Day behind them , Congress and the presidential candidates have a chance to reassess their battle plans and to gird for the next stage of the fight.Congress returns on Tuesday from its summer break to a potentially tumultuous month , beginning with a fight over the Iran nuclear agreement , despite its predetermined outcome.Democrats have already shown that they have the votes to sustain a veto of any congressional resolution trying to block the nuclear deal , shifting the focus to whether the legislation will even get to President Obama.Over the weekend , Senator Harry Reid of Nevada , the Democratic leader , called on Republicans to agree to a 60-vote threshold for approval of the measure , confident that they ca n't meet that standard for passage .
2453 get-have With Labor Day behind them , Congress and the presidential candidates have a chance to reassess their battle plans and to gird for the next stage of the fight.Congress returns on Tuesday from its summer break to a potentially tumultuous month , beginning with a fight over the Iran nuclear agreement , despite its predetermined outcome.Democrats have already shown that they have the votes to sustain a veto of any congressional resolution trying to block the nuclear deal , shifting the focus to whether the legislation will even get to President Obama.Over the weekend , Senator Harry Reid of Nevada , the Democratic leader , called on Republicans to agree to a 60-vote threshold for approval of the measure , confident that they ca n't meet that standard for passage .
2454 get-have With Labor Day behind them , Congress and the presidential candidates have a chance to reassess their battle plans and to gird for the next stage of the fight.Congress returns on Tuesday from its summer break to a potentially tumultuous month , beginning with a fight over the Iran nuclear agreement , despite its predetermined outcome.Democrats have already shown that they have the votes to sustain a veto of any congressional resolution trying to block the nuclear deal , shifting the focus to whether the legislation will even get to President Obama.Over the weekend , Senator Harry Reid of Nevada , the Democratic leader , called on Republicans to agree to a 60-vote threshold for approval of the measure , confident that they ca n't meet that standard for passage .
2455 get-realizes Tax returns take time to process , and HealthCare.gov ca n't get real-time updates.So even if a procrastinator realizes his mistake and files a tax return in October , HealthCare.gov might not reflect that information until much later.The administration says it has a backstop for consumers who get tripped up by the time lag .
2456 get-stay He was n't going to stay at the caves for long , so sending a messenger back would have been a bit silly -- as an Allomancer , he might even be able to get back before a man on horseback .
2457 get-stay You 'll recover -- you 'll even get better at pushing yourself like this -- but right now you just have to keep burning the pewter and stay awake .
2458 get-sustain And so , maybe Iran would n't get $ 150 billion , but they 'd get a big chunk of that , because we would not be able to sustain that support .
2459 get-sustain With Labor Day behind them , Congress and the presidential candidates have a chance to reassess their battle plans and to gird for the next stage of the fight.Congress returns on Tuesday from its summer break to a potentially tumultuous month , beginning with a fight over the Iran nuclear agreement , despite its predetermined outcome.Democrats have already shown that they have the votes to sustain a veto of any congressional resolution trying to block the nuclear deal , shifting the focus to whether the legislation will even get to President Obama.Over the weekend , Senator Harry Reid of Nevada , the Democratic leader , called on Republicans to agree to a 60-vote threshold for approval of the measure , confident that they ca n't meet that standard for passage .
2460 getting-kick ` Feel free to kick us out , ' Mr. Hoffman recalled telling the president.But Mr. Obama was just getting started .
2461 getting-sit She found it unnerving to sit docilely while someone worked with shears so close to her head , but there was no getting around it .
2462 getting-was However , she was even more annoyed at herself for getting unsettled .
2463 getting-was Her hair was getting a bit long for her taste -- though somehow she doubted that Sazed was going to let her have it cropped boyishly short .
2464 give-keep His body would give out eventually , but he could keep going for a bit longer .
2465 give-maintain `` It makes them run out much faster , and it 's difficult to maintain , but it can give you an extra boost . ''
2466 given-had ` Mr. Cox later clarified that he had not seen any case involving cannibalism , though he described it as the next logical step given what he at several points called an ` increase in savagery .
2467 given-had On burglaries or scouting missions , she had occasionally seen ornamental plants , but she 'd never given them much heed -- they , like many noble interests , had seemed frivolous to her .
2468 given-had He could n't see anymore , not as he once had , but he had been given something better .
2469 gives-reveals Every question you ask them gives a clue about your true motives -- even meeting with them reveals a bit of information that they could sell to someone else .
2470 giving-pointing ` Certainly the G.O.P. and Trump are giving her good ammo , and it is funny , but she 's like a magician - ` Look over here , not at what 's really going on , '' ' said Richard Tafel , a Republican strategist , pointing to the inquiries related to her use of private email as secretary of state.Attacking the Republicans is not just an applause-line strategy , though .
2471 glanced-going He glanced behind him ; he had a few moments , but he was never going to make it back to the balcony .
2472 glanced-hears Good job leaving Shan 's body back at Keep Venture , by the way -- when House Elariel hears that she was found dead on Venture property ... '' Vin allowed him to pull her up , but she glanced toward the trapdoor apprehensively .
2473 glanced-let She must have let some of her confidence show , because he glanced at her out of the corner of his eye , and his expression darkened .
2474 glancing-see `` I 've been meaning to ask this for a while , '' she said , glancing out the window , though all she could see is mist .
2475 glared-paused Camon glared at her , but he paused .
2476 glistening-set They set up a small stand beside her chair , and even gave her a crystalline cup filled with a glistening red liquid .
2477 glistening-were They were still thick , but tin let her see a faint glistening on the horizon .
2478 go-leave I was n't allowed to leave the plantation -- or even go outside of the hovel community -- without permission .
2479 go-means He means well , but he has a tendency to go a little overboard sometimes . ''
2480 go-was The vial I gave you was measured to contain about ten minutes ' worth of continuous burning -- though it will go faster if you flare often and slower if you are careful about when you use it . ''
2481 go-was The sun was close to setting ; soon , the mists would come -- though , as usual , Sazed would have guards posted to make certain that she did n't go on any unauthorized Allomantic romps .
2482 go-was It was still midday , but there were n't any important events happening until the evening , so she had nowhere to go but back to Fellise .
2483 go-was Of course , he probably had n't made the decision to go until a short time before -- even the new , more responsible Kelsier was an impulsive man .
2484 go-was I was n't allowed to leave the plantation -- or even go outside of the hovel community -- without permission .
2485 go-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
2486 go-was They did n't go out the window -- Kelsier wanted to maintain a low profile , though this section of the Twists was so deserted that Vin was n't sure why he bothered .
2487 go-was ` In an interview on ` Fox & Friends ' a few days after Mr. Stone 's departure from the campaign , Mr. Trump said , ` Roger Stone is a nice guy , but I let him go because I really was n't using him and he liked to get a lot of publicity for himself , which I did n't want .
2488 goes-serves ` Mr. Cox 's personal evolution not only serves as a window into the criminal justice system in Caddo Parish , Mr. Smith said , but also goes to the heart of the questions raised by Justice Breyer .
2489 going-rumble ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
2490 going-work This is n't going to be an easy job , but it can work .
2491 going-work But he also stressed his willingness to work with union leaders - something he said differentiates him from one of his chief rivals , former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.Bush had said earlier that he 'd love a day when he and American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten `` could hold hands and sing Kumbaya , '' but said `` she 's not going to change . ''
2492 gone-let Kelsier would probably have gone after her , but Dockson would n't let himself do something that brash .
2493 gone-see The front door was gone , though Vin could see remnants of it in the splintered refuse on the floor .
2494 gone-turned She turned back to Kelsier , but he was gone .
2495 gone-was He was n't a friend , but he was the closest thing she had now that Reen was gone .
2496 gone-welcomed ` Some said they had never gone to a museum , but welcomed the art .
2497 gore-mounting ` As Democratic Party officials see Bernie Sanders 's mounting strength with voters , I think they will begin to better understand that he will not only be a strong nominee who can help Democrats all across the country win elections , but he actually will be the white knight if they need one , ' said Mr. Devine , who was a past adviser to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore .
2498 gore-seems Mr. Gore would be only 68 - but also seems less interested in presidential politics these days.The liberal hero .
2499 got-grew They grew in a wide , circular pattern on the wall ; they were small at the edges , but got gradually bigger near the center .
2500 got-is Blood transfusions are a rarity , and the blood type that soldiers have listed on their identification cards to assist medics is often incorrect.Ahmad , a battlefield medic in Musa Qala who would only give his first name , said that he and his colleagues treated arm and leg wounds on the front lines , but that ` when the soldiers got wounded on chest , head and abdomen , we can not treat them or stop bleeding .
2501 got-is ` Yeah , but here 's where having somebody like Energy Secretary Ernie Moniz is pretty helpful , because he assured us that if , in fact , we have good mechanisms to scoop up and sample earth , this stuff has got a long half-life .
2502 got-is It breaks down as follows : - About 760,000 households that got tax credits and filed their tax returns , but omitted a new form that is the key to accounting for the subsidies .
2503 got-is Others questioned his sophistication in boiling down national security challenges to matters of ` safety ' ; he believes people relate to that word , whereas ` national security ' is an elitist phrase.And his repeated comments that the most important foreign policy decision of his lifetime was President Ronald Reagan 's firing of air traffic controllers in 1981 , because it got the attention of the Soviet Union , was a sign to some Republicans that Mr. Walker , who dropped out of Marquette University and has not traveled widely abroad , has a limited worldview .
2504 got-is ` The guy who 's now got the biggest challenge because of this is Rand Paul , ' said Newt Gingrich , the former Republican House speaker .
2505 got-was Things got to the point where there was no political or economic activity in the country , because the violence was so bad . ''
2506 got-was Called Form 8962 , it was new for this year 's tax filing season.-About 710,000 households that did not file a 2014 return by the tax-filing deadline , although they were legally required to account for health insurance tax credits.-Some 360,000 households that got tax credits and requested an extension to file their returns .
2507 got-was ONAWA , Iowa - Scott Walker 's suggestion that building a wall between Canada and the U.S. might be a `` legitimate '' idea prompted swift derision from fellow Republicans on Monday and an attempt by his campaign to clarify what he meant.It was the latest misstep for a 2016 presidential candidate who got off to a strong start but has fallen back into the pack after a series of fumbles and a lackluster performance in the first GOP debate.The Wisconsin governor was asked on NBC 's `` Meet the Press '' on Sunday whether he thought a wall should be built along the more than 5,000 miles of border with Canada .
2508 got-was Others questioned his sophistication in boiling down national security challenges to matters of ` safety ' ; he believes people relate to that word , whereas ` national security ' is an elitist phrase.And his repeated comments that the most important foreign policy decision of his lifetime was President Ronald Reagan 's firing of air traffic controllers in 1981 , because it got the attention of the Soviet Union , was a sign to some Republicans that Mr. Walker , who dropped out of Marquette University and has not traveled widely abroad , has a limited worldview .
2509 got-was He , too , ultimately said he was sorry.While Clinton 's apology may ease the anxiety among some Democrats , it 's unlikely to end the political fallout.Republican National Committee spokeswoman Allison Moore suggested Tuesday that Clinton was only apologizing because `` she got caught and is dropping in the polls .
2510 got-was He , too , ultimately said he was sorry.While Clinton 's apology may ease the anxiety among some Democrats , it 's unlikely to end the political fallout.Republican National Committee spokeswoman Allison Moore suggested Tuesday that Clinton was only apologizing because `` she got caught and is dropping in the polls .
2511 gotten-told ` Every time we 've toppled a secular strong man , we 've gotten chaos and more radical Islam , and we 're all less safe because of it , ' the Republican of Kentucky told me . '
2512 govern-seizing `` Seizing the palace and digging in will make for a spectacular story , but it would be nice if Yeden and his people were actually ready to govern , once this is all over . ''
2513 grab-making We 'll grab the atium -- we 'll need it to support a new government -- but this job is n't about making me , or any of you , wealthy .
2514 grab-resisted Kelsier burned iron , reaching out to grab the weapon and Pull it down , to force the killing blow , but Demoux resisted .
2515 grabbed-had She had n't even noticed that Kelsier had grabbed it off of the bar .
2516 granted-said Shan said the words , even the insult , without vehemence ; she simply seemed to take it for granted that Vin would agree .
2517 grappling-supporting ` As our progressive partners have real issues they are grappling with , we can take the time and energy to come up with a fix to the problems they have , ' Mr. Mestrich said.Candidates of both parties often keep at least some of their money in home-state banks , for appearance 's sake.But many Republican candidates and super PACs , including Jeb Bush and the deep-pocketed super PAC supporting him , do the bulk of their banking with their own version of Amalgamated , the smaller Chain Bridge Bank , based in McLean , Va. .
2518 grasp-were Some of the words were beyond her skill , but she was able to grasp the author 's meaning .
2519 gratifying-winning Trump clearly finds this endeavor personally gratifying , even as his odds of winning the nomination remain slim .
2520 grew-keep The men 's voices grew distant ; even running , they would n't be able to keep up with her .
2521 grew-scrambling The smell of death grew stronger , but he did n't hear anything except scrambling beggars behind him .
2522 groaned-looked Ham groaned slightly , and even Clubs looked saddened .
2523 grow-healed Kelsier had warned against using it too much , lest she grow dependent upon its power , but she saw little alternative until she was healed .
2524 grow-let `` He talked about how they grow stronger during the day because they let themselves be weak at night . ''
2525 grow-resembles Currently , married filers receive a standard deduction of $ 12,600 ; single filers , a $ 6,300 standard deduction.William Gale , a former economic adviser to President George H.W. Bush and now co-director of the Tax Policy Center , said Bush 's plan resembles part of Romney 's 2012 plan , but the impact on government revenues and how it would grow the economy remains to be seen .
2526 grow-tell If you grow very skilled , you might even be able to tell when they 're running low on metals . ''
2527 growing-struggle Vin continued to struggle weakly , but she was growing numb .
2528 growing-was There was respect -- even a growing bit of adulation -- in his voice .
2529 grumble-re They like to drink with their friends and grumble about the Lord Ruler ; but , in their hearts , they 're still noblemen .
2530 guess-re They 're quiet , but I guess you just have to focus hard enough to -- '' `` Vin , '' Kelsier interrupted .
2531 guiding-increasing Yet , with pewter and tin guiding her , she managed to stay on her feet -- though doing so required increasing attention as the evening grew dark and the mists came out .
2532 gutted-said President Obama said very little on voting rights until deep into his second term , even after the Supreme Court gutted the Voting Rights Act in 2013 , freeing up Republican-dominated state governments to enact dozens of new voting restrictions that previously would have been blocked by federal law.Voter ID laws have been a particular favorite , even though their backers know full well that impersonation fraud is essentially nonexistent .
2533 had-known He was already well known because of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee 's stand against the United States ' involvement in the Vietnam War.That touched off a national drama that ended in 1966 when the Supreme Court , in a unanimous decision , ordered the State Assembly to seat him , saying it had denied him freedom of speech.As a lawmaker , he sponsored bills to establish a sickle cell anemia testing program and to provide low-interest home loans to low-income Georgians .
2534 had-known On health care , traditionally an issue that favors Democrats by double digit margins , the Democrats had only a 6 point edge.The Republican advantage on national security and terrorism is of particular importance because of the growing political salience of the threat posed by the Islamic State militant organization , known as ISIS .
2535 had-known Up until just recently , she had n't even known much about Allomancy .
2536 had-known She 'd known that they 'd be sending out a barge this day , but she had n't expected Kelsier to go with it .
2537 had-known The crew had made her feel needed for a time , but she 'd always known it would end .
2538 had-lighten Beside the beard , he had a fake , but realistic , nose , along with platforms in the shoes and makeup to lighten his skin .
2539 had-lying In one , an anchor said that Mr. Trump had nothing in his head but air , and in another , Armando Guzmán , a Washington correspondent , accused Mr. Trump of lying : ` As in everything else , Trump is not telling the truth , ' Mr. Guzmán said.The last one-on-one interview Mr. Trump gave to a Spanish-language network was with Mr. Díaz-Balart on Telemundo , shortly after Mr. Trump announced his candidacy .
2540 had-met He was n't the one she had met , fortunately , though he had the same gray robes and dark tattoos around his eyes .
2541 had-met Kelsier had been right : Though polite groups met at balls , the nobility were more than willing to stab each other square in the chest if it benefited them .
2542 had-opposes And right after Hurricane Sandy , he and President Obama had their soggy , windswept bromance.But Christie also opposes same-sex marriage and abortion rights .
2543 had-punished The nobility had Allomancy and privilege because of their ancestors ; the skaa were punished for the same reason .
2544 had-reached Vin 's hair had n't even reached her shoulders yet , and she was already loath to let it get longer .
2545 had-realized She 'd never used her Luck in such a way ; she had n't even realized that she could .
2546 had-realized This time , however , she had n't even realized what she was doing .
2547 had-sazed Sazed claimed he would n't be happy until her hair was at least shoulder-length , but he had still suggested that she purchase the broochlike barrettes and put them just above each ear .
2548 had-sazed Sazed 's lessons might have omitted dancing , but they had been quite extensive regarding dining etiquette , for which Vin was grateful .
2549 had-sazed Sazed 's inquiries had been respectful , of course , but they had also been forceful .
2550 had-sazed She waved toward Sazed , but he had obviously already seen her .
2551 had-scavenge She had no money , but Reen had taught her how to scavenge and beg .
2552 had-seemed He had seemed a bit uncomfortable around her at the beginning of the conversation , but that had passed quickly .
2553 had-seemed Vin followed in a nervous crouch ; the room seemed empty , but there had to be other guards .
2554 had-seemed On burglaries or scouting missions , she had occasionally seen ornamental plants , but she 'd never given them much heed -- they , like many noble interests , had seemed frivolous to her .
2555 had-seemed Her attendance seemed important to him , but he rarely paid much attention to her other than to ask how her day had been .
2556 had-seemed The other crewmembers obviously had no interest in leadership , but Kelsier seemed to thrive on it .
2557 had-seemed He could remember a time when Vin had looked frighteningly awkward in a dress , but she seemed to have taken an increasing liking to them .
2558 had-seemed Vin had been in skaa tenements before , but never before had they seemed so ... depressing .
2559 had-seemed They seemed a bit confused to be confronted by a nobleman , but they still had superior numbers .
2560 had-seemed He had recovered quickly indeed -- though Vin still bore bruises , fractures , and cuts from the fight , he seemed to have already healed his broken ribs .
2561 had-seemed He had been awake only a few hours , but he already seemed tired .
2562 had-seemed It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
2563 had-smiled Clubs smiled , though on his face the expression had a decidedly twisted look .
2564 had-thrive The other crewmembers obviously had no interest in leadership , but Kelsier seemed to thrive on it .
2565 had-twist She tried to twist away , but the Inquisitor had her in a powerful grasp .
2566 had-understood I had a lot of disagreements with Richard Nixon , but he understood there was the prospect , the possibility , that China could take a different path .
2567 had-was I do n't have time to talk about somebody else , ' Mr. Kasich said , adding that he was fully occupied , like Mr. Carson , with introducing himself to voters.Responding to a question from a voter about how he had similarly deflected the topic of Mr. Trump in a CNN interview , Mr. Kasich even avoided mentioning the unlikely Republican poll-leader by name.For a while , that is.He eventually gave in to temptation , after uncorking a metaphor about how his much-praised debate performance was akin to being an astronaut launched in a rocket ship .
2568 had-was Throughout the 2008 campaign cycle , Obama the candidate was fond of declaring on the stump that Al Qaeda grew stronger because the Iraq war had caused the Bush administration to '' take our eye off the ball '' instead of '' refocusing our attention on the war that can be won in Afghanistan . ''
2569 had-was I had a lot of disagreements with Richard Nixon , but he understood there was the prospect , the possibility , that China could take a different path .
2570 had-was He was already well known because of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee 's stand against the United States ' involvement in the Vietnam War.That touched off a national drama that ended in 1966 when the Supreme Court , in a unanimous decision , ordered the State Assembly to seat him , saying it had denied him freedom of speech.As a lawmaker , he sponsored bills to establish a sickle cell anemia testing program and to provide low-interest home loans to low-income Georgians .
2571 had-was In one , an anchor said that Mr. Trump had nothing in his head but air , and in another , Armando Guzmán , a Washington correspondent , accused Mr. Trump of lying : ` As in everything else , Trump is not telling the truth , ' Mr. Guzmán said.The last one-on-one interview Mr. Trump gave to a Spanish-language network was with Mr. Díaz-Balart on Telemundo , shortly after Mr. Trump announced his candidacy .
2572 had-was Zeldin said that he had done that , for his own part , but that he was not shocked by corruption among lawmakers whom he described as underpaid .
2573 had-was Several senior House members turned their eyes toward Rob Bruchman , who had voted ` yes ' on the first bill but was a ` no ' on this one .
2574 had-was Reagan `` had a bitter hatred of communism , '' Russo said , but `` was dreadfully fearful ... of ending the world with a nuclear holocaust .
2575 had-was Flen was sure it was just a mistwraith impersonating her , but I had to let her in !
2576 had-was Flen was sure it was just a mistwraith impersonating her , but I had to let her in !
2577 had-was She was n't sure if he knew why his plans went better when she was in the room , but he had apparently made the connection .
2578 had-was She was n't sure if he knew why his plans went better when she was in the room , but he had apparently made the connection .
2579 had-was Tall and blocky , the building had a massive rose window in the front , though the glass was dark from the outside .
2580 had-was The Canton of Finance was hardly the most threatening of Ministry offices -- the Canton of Inquisition , or even the Canton of Orthodoxy , had a far more ominous reputation .
2581 had-was He was n't a friend , but he was the closest thing she had now that Reen was gone .
2582 had-was He was impressively muscular , but not massive , and had close-cropped hair that stuck up slightly on his head .
2583 had-was This time , however , she had n't even realized what she was doing .
2584 had-was He glanced behind him ; he had a few moments , but he was never going to make it back to the balcony .
2585 had-was The room was decorated with a sturdy wooden armoire , and even had a circular rug .
2586 had-was It had been hard work -- most noblemen used skaa instead of horses to pull the boats along the towpath -- but there had been a certain freedom to knowing that she was traveling at all , for most skaa , even skaa thieves , never left their plantation or town .
2587 had-was She had heard tales of what went abroad in the land at night , and the cover of the mists -- even pierced by tin as it now was -- made her feel as if she were being watched .
2588 had-was Kelsier certainly had his quirks -- though , anyone who had spent so long at the Pits of Hathsin was bound to be left a bit strange .
2589 had-was Camon had been good at imitating noblemen because of his self-confidence , and that was one attribute Vin knew she did n't have .
2590 had-was It was a small item , but Vin had not forgotten it .
2591 had-was They were n't rotting yet -- the attack had happened only that morning -- but there was still a smell of death about the room .
2592 had-was Sazed claimed he would n't be happy until her hair was at least shoulder-length , but he had still suggested that she purchase the broochlike barrettes and put them just above each ear .
2593 had-was He was n't the one she had met , fortunately , though he had the same gray robes and dark tattoos around his eyes .
2594 had-was She had to try hard to focus on the one she was interested in , but the table was the one closest to her , so she eventually singled out the appropriate voices .
2595 had-was Above , the cool mists continued to churn , and it had begun to drizzle slightly -- but that was n't much different from the regular nightly humidity .
2596 had-was The rainwater had marked it , but the tome was obviously designed to endure .
2597 had-was Kredik Shaw had taught her that she was n't invincible -- but Kelsier 's survival with barely a scratch proved that it was possible to be much better than she was .
2598 had-was Kredik Shaw had taught her that she was n't invincible -- but Kelsier 's survival with barely a scratch proved that it was possible to be much better than she was .
2599 had-was Kelsier had warned against using it too much , lest she grow dependent upon its power , but she saw little alternative until she was healed .
2600 had-was The neckline was lower -- not that she had a lot to show -- but it was beautiful .
2601 had-was Her dress was beautiful , but the other women had so much more than just gowns .
2602 had-was She probably had n't discovered much of value to Kelsier -- however , Liese was only the beginning .
2603 had-was She scanned the table , trying to notice if anything had been disturbed , but Elend had left the books in such a state of disarray that it was hard to tell .
2604 had-was It had been there before -- she recognized it because it was so much thinner than the others -- so the Terrisman had n't left it behind .
2605 had-was He was only one man , and even Mistborn had limits .
2606 had-was The information was useless to him , but his true purpose -- finding out about House Renoux -- had already been fulfilled .
2607 had-was It was still midday , but there were n't any important events happening until the evening , so she had nowhere to go but back to Fellise .
2608 had-was Ash had fallen during her trip to the city , and though it was done now , its aftermath was visible in small drifts and flurries of black blowing across the town 's streets .
2609 had-was Ash had fallen during her trip to the city , and though it was done now , its aftermath was visible in small drifts and flurries of black blowing across the town 's streets .
2610 had-was Of course , he probably had n't made the decision to go until a short time before -- even the new , more responsible Kelsier was an impulsive man .
2611 had-was He was smaller than the rest , but he had the simple earnestness that Kelsier had noticed earlier .
2612 had-was He was smaller than the rest , but he had the simple earnestness that Kelsier had noticed earlier .
2613 had-was It was distant , but Vin had grown into the habit of burning a little bit of tin at all times .
2614 had-was It was still somewhat light outside , but Dockson already had the evening drapes drawn and was working by candlelight .
2615 had-was True , the men had died fighting the Final Empire , which was as good a death as any skaa could hope for -- however , the fact that they 'd likely died expecting some sort of divine protection from Kelsier ... that was disturbing .
2616 had-was Vin 's hair had n't even reached her shoulders yet , and she was already loath to let it get longer .
2617 had-was Many had servants holding up parasols against the ash , but it was falling lightly enough that some just ignored it .
2618 had-was Vin had assumed that they were too packed to move , but apparently she was wrong .
2619 had-was She was still far more careful than most people , but she had lost so much .
2620 had-was The building Marsh had chosen was even more run-down than the one Vin and Kelsier had been sitting in .
2621 had-was Kelsier still had n't been able to discover which house was behind the murders , but the Luthadel nobility did n't seem to care who the culprit was .
2622 had-was She had seen snow on some distant peaks , but she had rarely seen it fall -- and even then it was usually just an icy slush .
2623 had-was There was a peace in knowing , however , that she had n't done it out of spite .
2624 had-was We managed to sneak one of our best men up to the building itself -- we do n't think he was spotted -- but he had a remarkably difficult time hearing what 's going on inside .
2625 had-was It was dark , silent , and lonely ; even the war had n't changed very much .
2626 had-was `` I told him that it was because their believers had something they felt passionate about .
2627 had-was He was a young man , in an imperial uniform , though he had removed the jacket to make himself look less obtrusive .
2628 had-was It was bright with light ; not even a single day had passed , and Elend was already meeting with skaa and noblemen leaders , drafting a code of laws for his new nation .
2629 had-was They then affixed the activist label onto the president 's nominee , Sonia Sotomayor , who had in fact spent a distinctly nonactivist 17 years as a federal judge but who was then forced to offer senator after senator a stilted pledge to do nothing on the bench but ` apply the law . '
2630 had-was It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
2631 had-was Mr. Biden , in contrast , stressed the success of the bill 's community policing measures , which he said had achieved their goals before funding was cut.And in an interview with Time magazine in February 2014 , he said , ' I am not only the guy who did the crime bill and the drug czar , but I 'm also the guy who spent years when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee trying to change drug policy relative to cocaine , for example , crack and powder .
2632 had-was ` Mr. Perry was making his second consecutive run for the presidency but it failed to catch fire , and in recent weeks his small cadre of advisers had been discussing whether he should drop out of the race .
2633 had-was I do n't have time to talk about somebody else , ' Mr. Kasich said , adding that he was fully occupied , like Mr. Carson , with introducing himself to voters.Responding to a question from a voter about how he had similarly deflected the topic of Mr. Trump in a CNN interview , Mr. Kasich even avoided mentioning the unlikely Republican poll-leader by name.For a while , that is.He eventually gave in to temptation , after uncorking a metaphor about how his much-praised debate performance was akin to being an astronaut launched in a rocket ship .
2634 had-was Throughout the 2008 campaign cycle , Obama the candidate was fond of declaring on the stump that Al Qaeda grew stronger because the Iraq war had caused the Bush administration to '' take our eye off the ball '' instead of '' refocusing our attention on the war that can be won in Afghanistan . ''
2635 had-was I had a lot of disagreements with Richard Nixon , but he understood there was the prospect , the possibility , that China could take a different path .
2636 had-was He was already well known because of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee 's stand against the United States ' involvement in the Vietnam War.That touched off a national drama that ended in 1966 when the Supreme Court , in a unanimous decision , ordered the State Assembly to seat him , saying it had denied him freedom of speech.As a lawmaker , he sponsored bills to establish a sickle cell anemia testing program and to provide low-interest home loans to low-income Georgians .
2637 had-was In one , an anchor said that Mr. Trump had nothing in his head but air , and in another , Armando Guzmán , a Washington correspondent , accused Mr. Trump of lying : ` As in everything else , Trump is not telling the truth , ' Mr. Guzmán said.The last one-on-one interview Mr. Trump gave to a Spanish-language network was with Mr. Díaz-Balart on Telemundo , shortly after Mr. Trump announced his candidacy .
2638 had-was Zeldin said that he had done that , for his own part , but that he was not shocked by corruption among lawmakers whom he described as underpaid .
2639 had-was Several senior House members turned their eyes toward Rob Bruchman , who had voted ` yes ' on the first bill but was a ` no ' on this one .
2640 had-was Reagan `` had a bitter hatred of communism , '' Russo said , but `` was dreadfully fearful ... of ending the world with a nuclear holocaust .
2641 had-was Flen was sure it was just a mistwraith impersonating her , but I had to let her in !
2642 had-was Flen was sure it was just a mistwraith impersonating her , but I had to let her in !
2643 had-was She was n't sure if he knew why his plans went better when she was in the room , but he had apparently made the connection .
2644 had-was She was n't sure if he knew why his plans went better when she was in the room , but he had apparently made the connection .
2645 had-was Tall and blocky , the building had a massive rose window in the front , though the glass was dark from the outside .
2646 had-was The Canton of Finance was hardly the most threatening of Ministry offices -- the Canton of Inquisition , or even the Canton of Orthodoxy , had a far more ominous reputation .
2647 had-was He was n't a friend , but he was the closest thing she had now that Reen was gone .
2648 had-was He was impressively muscular , but not massive , and had close-cropped hair that stuck up slightly on his head .
2649 had-was This time , however , she had n't even realized what she was doing .
2650 had-was He glanced behind him ; he had a few moments , but he was never going to make it back to the balcony .
2651 had-was The room was decorated with a sturdy wooden armoire , and even had a circular rug .
2652 had-was It had been hard work -- most noblemen used skaa instead of horses to pull the boats along the towpath -- but there had been a certain freedom to knowing that she was traveling at all , for most skaa , even skaa thieves , never left their plantation or town .
2653 had-was She had heard tales of what went abroad in the land at night , and the cover of the mists -- even pierced by tin as it now was -- made her feel as if she were being watched .
2654 had-was Kelsier certainly had his quirks -- though , anyone who had spent so long at the Pits of Hathsin was bound to be left a bit strange .
2655 had-was Camon had been good at imitating noblemen because of his self-confidence , and that was one attribute Vin knew she did n't have .
2656 had-was It was a small item , but Vin had not forgotten it .
2657 had-was They were n't rotting yet -- the attack had happened only that morning -- but there was still a smell of death about the room .
2658 had-was Sazed claimed he would n't be happy until her hair was at least shoulder-length , but he had still suggested that she purchase the broochlike barrettes and put them just above each ear .
2659 had-was He was n't the one she had met , fortunately , though he had the same gray robes and dark tattoos around his eyes .
2660 had-was She had to try hard to focus on the one she was interested in , but the table was the one closest to her , so she eventually singled out the appropriate voices .
2661 had-was Above , the cool mists continued to churn , and it had begun to drizzle slightly -- but that was n't much different from the regular nightly humidity .
2662 had-was The rainwater had marked it , but the tome was obviously designed to endure .
2663 had-was Kredik Shaw had taught her that she was n't invincible -- but Kelsier 's survival with barely a scratch proved that it was possible to be much better than she was .
2664 had-was Kredik Shaw had taught her that she was n't invincible -- but Kelsier 's survival with barely a scratch proved that it was possible to be much better than she was .
2665 had-was Kelsier had warned against using it too much , lest she grow dependent upon its power , but she saw little alternative until she was healed .
2666 had-was The neckline was lower -- not that she had a lot to show -- but it was beautiful .
2667 had-was Her dress was beautiful , but the other women had so much more than just gowns .
2668 had-was She probably had n't discovered much of value to Kelsier -- however , Liese was only the beginning .
2669 had-was She scanned the table , trying to notice if anything had been disturbed , but Elend had left the books in such a state of disarray that it was hard to tell .
2670 had-was It had been there before -- she recognized it because it was so much thinner than the others -- so the Terrisman had n't left it behind .
2671 had-was He was only one man , and even Mistborn had limits .
2672 had-was The information was useless to him , but his true purpose -- finding out about House Renoux -- had already been fulfilled .
2673 had-was It was still midday , but there were n't any important events happening until the evening , so she had nowhere to go but back to Fellise .
2674 had-was Ash had fallen during her trip to the city , and though it was done now , its aftermath was visible in small drifts and flurries of black blowing across the town 's streets .
2675 had-was Ash had fallen during her trip to the city , and though it was done now , its aftermath was visible in small drifts and flurries of black blowing across the town 's streets .
2676 had-was Of course , he probably had n't made the decision to go until a short time before -- even the new , more responsible Kelsier was an impulsive man .
2677 had-was He was smaller than the rest , but he had the simple earnestness that Kelsier had noticed earlier .
2678 had-was He was smaller than the rest , but he had the simple earnestness that Kelsier had noticed earlier .
2679 had-was It was distant , but Vin had grown into the habit of burning a little bit of tin at all times .
2680 had-was It was still somewhat light outside , but Dockson already had the evening drapes drawn and was working by candlelight .
2681 had-was True , the men had died fighting the Final Empire , which was as good a death as any skaa could hope for -- however , the fact that they 'd likely died expecting some sort of divine protection from Kelsier ... that was disturbing .
2682 had-was Vin 's hair had n't even reached her shoulders yet , and she was already loath to let it get longer .
2683 had-was Many had servants holding up parasols against the ash , but it was falling lightly enough that some just ignored it .
2684 had-was Vin had assumed that they were too packed to move , but apparently she was wrong .
2685 had-was She was still far more careful than most people , but she had lost so much .
2686 had-was The building Marsh had chosen was even more run-down than the one Vin and Kelsier had been sitting in .
2687 had-was Kelsier still had n't been able to discover which house was behind the murders , but the Luthadel nobility did n't seem to care who the culprit was .
2688 had-was She had seen snow on some distant peaks , but she had rarely seen it fall -- and even then it was usually just an icy slush .
2689 had-was There was a peace in knowing , however , that she had n't done it out of spite .
2690 had-was We managed to sneak one of our best men up to the building itself -- we do n't think he was spotted -- but he had a remarkably difficult time hearing what 's going on inside .
2691 had-was It was dark , silent , and lonely ; even the war had n't changed very much .
2692 had-was `` I told him that it was because their believers had something they felt passionate about .
2693 had-was He was a young man , in an imperial uniform , though he had removed the jacket to make himself look less obtrusive .
2694 had-was It was bright with light ; not even a single day had passed , and Elend was already meeting with skaa and noblemen leaders , drafting a code of laws for his new nation .
2695 had-was They then affixed the activist label onto the president 's nominee , Sonia Sotomayor , who had in fact spent a distinctly nonactivist 17 years as a federal judge but who was then forced to offer senator after senator a stilted pledge to do nothing on the bench but ` apply the law . '
2696 had-was It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
2697 had-was Mr. Biden , in contrast , stressed the success of the bill 's community policing measures , which he said had achieved their goals before funding was cut.And in an interview with Time magazine in February 2014 , he said , ' I am not only the guy who did the crime bill and the drug czar , but I 'm also the guy who spent years when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee trying to change drug policy relative to cocaine , for example , crack and powder .
2698 had-was ` Mr. Perry was making his second consecutive run for the presidency but it failed to catch fire , and in recent weeks his small cadre of advisers had been discussing whether he should drop out of the race .
2699 had-was I do n't have time to talk about somebody else , ' Mr. Kasich said , adding that he was fully occupied , like Mr. Carson , with introducing himself to voters.Responding to a question from a voter about how he had similarly deflected the topic of Mr. Trump in a CNN interview , Mr. Kasich even avoided mentioning the unlikely Republican poll-leader by name.For a while , that is.He eventually gave in to temptation , after uncorking a metaphor about how his much-praised debate performance was akin to being an astronaut launched in a rocket ship .
2700 had-was Throughout the 2008 campaign cycle , Obama the candidate was fond of declaring on the stump that Al Qaeda grew stronger because the Iraq war had caused the Bush administration to '' take our eye off the ball '' instead of '' refocusing our attention on the war that can be won in Afghanistan . ''
2701 had-was I had a lot of disagreements with Richard Nixon , but he understood there was the prospect , the possibility , that China could take a different path .
2702 had-was He was already well known because of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee 's stand against the United States ' involvement in the Vietnam War.That touched off a national drama that ended in 1966 when the Supreme Court , in a unanimous decision , ordered the State Assembly to seat him , saying it had denied him freedom of speech.As a lawmaker , he sponsored bills to establish a sickle cell anemia testing program and to provide low-interest home loans to low-income Georgians .
2703 had-was In one , an anchor said that Mr. Trump had nothing in his head but air , and in another , Armando Guzmán , a Washington correspondent , accused Mr. Trump of lying : ` As in everything else , Trump is not telling the truth , ' Mr. Guzmán said.The last one-on-one interview Mr. Trump gave to a Spanish-language network was with Mr. Díaz-Balart on Telemundo , shortly after Mr. Trump announced his candidacy .
2704 had-was Zeldin said that he had done that , for his own part , but that he was not shocked by corruption among lawmakers whom he described as underpaid .
2705 had-was Several senior House members turned their eyes toward Rob Bruchman , who had voted ` yes ' on the first bill but was a ` no ' on this one .
2706 had-was Reagan `` had a bitter hatred of communism , '' Russo said , but `` was dreadfully fearful ... of ending the world with a nuclear holocaust .
2707 had-was Flen was sure it was just a mistwraith impersonating her , but I had to let her in !
2708 had-was Flen was sure it was just a mistwraith impersonating her , but I had to let her in !
2709 had-was She was n't sure if he knew why his plans went better when she was in the room , but he had apparently made the connection .
2710 had-was She was n't sure if he knew why his plans went better when she was in the room , but he had apparently made the connection .
2711 had-was Tall and blocky , the building had a massive rose window in the front , though the glass was dark from the outside .
2712 had-was The Canton of Finance was hardly the most threatening of Ministry offices -- the Canton of Inquisition , or even the Canton of Orthodoxy , had a far more ominous reputation .
2713 had-was He was n't a friend , but he was the closest thing she had now that Reen was gone .
2714 had-was He was impressively muscular , but not massive , and had close-cropped hair that stuck up slightly on his head .
2715 had-was This time , however , she had n't even realized what she was doing .
2716 had-was He glanced behind him ; he had a few moments , but he was never going to make it back to the balcony .
2717 had-was The room was decorated with a sturdy wooden armoire , and even had a circular rug .
2718 had-was It had been hard work -- most noblemen used skaa instead of horses to pull the boats along the towpath -- but there had been a certain freedom to knowing that she was traveling at all , for most skaa , even skaa thieves , never left their plantation or town .
2719 had-was She had heard tales of what went abroad in the land at night , and the cover of the mists -- even pierced by tin as it now was -- made her feel as if she were being watched .
2720 had-was Kelsier certainly had his quirks -- though , anyone who had spent so long at the Pits of Hathsin was bound to be left a bit strange .
2721 had-was Camon had been good at imitating noblemen because of his self-confidence , and that was one attribute Vin knew she did n't have .
2722 had-was It was a small item , but Vin had not forgotten it .
2723 had-was They were n't rotting yet -- the attack had happened only that morning -- but there was still a smell of death about the room .
2724 had-was Sazed claimed he would n't be happy until her hair was at least shoulder-length , but he had still suggested that she purchase the broochlike barrettes and put them just above each ear .
2725 had-was He was n't the one she had met , fortunately , though he had the same gray robes and dark tattoos around his eyes .
2726 had-was She had to try hard to focus on the one she was interested in , but the table was the one closest to her , so she eventually singled out the appropriate voices .
2727 had-was Above , the cool mists continued to churn , and it had begun to drizzle slightly -- but that was n't much different from the regular nightly humidity .
2728 had-was The rainwater had marked it , but the tome was obviously designed to endure .
2729 had-was Kredik Shaw had taught her that she was n't invincible -- but Kelsier 's survival with barely a scratch proved that it was possible to be much better than she was .
2730 had-was Kredik Shaw had taught her that she was n't invincible -- but Kelsier 's survival with barely a scratch proved that it was possible to be much better than she was .
2731 had-was Kelsier had warned against using it too much , lest she grow dependent upon its power , but she saw little alternative until she was healed .
2732 had-was The neckline was lower -- not that she had a lot to show -- but it was beautiful .
2733 had-was Her dress was beautiful , but the other women had so much more than just gowns .
2734 had-was She probably had n't discovered much of value to Kelsier -- however , Liese was only the beginning .
2735 had-was She scanned the table , trying to notice if anything had been disturbed , but Elend had left the books in such a state of disarray that it was hard to tell .
2736 had-was It had been there before -- she recognized it because it was so much thinner than the others -- so the Terrisman had n't left it behind .
2737 had-was He was only one man , and even Mistborn had limits .
2738 had-was The information was useless to him , but his true purpose -- finding out about House Renoux -- had already been fulfilled .
2739 had-was It was still midday , but there were n't any important events happening until the evening , so she had nowhere to go but back to Fellise .
2740 had-was Ash had fallen during her trip to the city , and though it was done now , its aftermath was visible in small drifts and flurries of black blowing across the town 's streets .
2741 had-was Ash had fallen during her trip to the city , and though it was done now , its aftermath was visible in small drifts and flurries of black blowing across the town 's streets .
2742 had-was Of course , he probably had n't made the decision to go until a short time before -- even the new , more responsible Kelsier was an impulsive man .
2743 had-was He was smaller than the rest , but he had the simple earnestness that Kelsier had noticed earlier .
2744 had-was He was smaller than the rest , but he had the simple earnestness that Kelsier had noticed earlier .
2745 had-was It was distant , but Vin had grown into the habit of burning a little bit of tin at all times .
2746 had-was It was still somewhat light outside , but Dockson already had the evening drapes drawn and was working by candlelight .
2747 had-was True , the men had died fighting the Final Empire , which was as good a death as any skaa could hope for -- however , the fact that they 'd likely died expecting some sort of divine protection from Kelsier ... that was disturbing .
2748 had-was Vin 's hair had n't even reached her shoulders yet , and she was already loath to let it get longer .
2749 had-was Many had servants holding up parasols against the ash , but it was falling lightly enough that some just ignored it .
2750 had-was Vin had assumed that they were too packed to move , but apparently she was wrong .
2751 had-was She was still far more careful than most people , but she had lost so much .
2752 had-was The building Marsh had chosen was even more run-down than the one Vin and Kelsier had been sitting in .
2753 had-was Kelsier still had n't been able to discover which house was behind the murders , but the Luthadel nobility did n't seem to care who the culprit was .
2754 had-was She had seen snow on some distant peaks , but she had rarely seen it fall -- and even then it was usually just an icy slush .
2755 had-was There was a peace in knowing , however , that she had n't done it out of spite .
2756 had-was We managed to sneak one of our best men up to the building itself -- we do n't think he was spotted -- but he had a remarkably difficult time hearing what 's going on inside .
2757 had-was It was dark , silent , and lonely ; even the war had n't changed very much .
2758 had-was `` I told him that it was because their believers had something they felt passionate about .
2759 had-was He was a young man , in an imperial uniform , though he had removed the jacket to make himself look less obtrusive .
2760 had-was It was bright with light ; not even a single day had passed , and Elend was already meeting with skaa and noblemen leaders , drafting a code of laws for his new nation .
2761 had-was They then affixed the activist label onto the president 's nominee , Sonia Sotomayor , who had in fact spent a distinctly nonactivist 17 years as a federal judge but who was then forced to offer senator after senator a stilted pledge to do nothing on the bench but ` apply the law . '
2762 had-was It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
2763 had-was Mr. Biden , in contrast , stressed the success of the bill 's community policing measures , which he said had achieved their goals before funding was cut.And in an interview with Time magazine in February 2014 , he said , ' I am not only the guy who did the crime bill and the drug czar , but I 'm also the guy who spent years when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee trying to change drug policy relative to cocaine , for example , crack and powder .
2764 had-was ` Mr. Perry was making his second consecutive run for the presidency but it failed to catch fire , and in recent weeks his small cadre of advisers had been discussing whether he should drop out of the race .
2765 had-were Ashfalls were n't that uncommon in the Final Empire , but Tresting had hoped to avoid getting soot stains on his fine new suit coat and red vest , which had just arrived via canal boat from Luthadel itself .
2766 had-were Ashfalls were n't that uncommon in the Final Empire , but Tresting had hoped to avoid getting soot stains on his fine new suit coat and red vest , which had just arrived via canal boat from Luthadel itself .
2767 had-were Tresting had his own , personal obligators back at the manor , but they were only minor functionaries , with barely a few marks around their eyes .
2768 had-were However , this was a people who had been fed on nothing but soup and gruel since they were children .
2769 had-were The servants Camon had appointed , however , were dressed as minor noblemen -- they were allowed to wear colorful vests , and they stood a little confidently .
2770 had-were The servants Camon had appointed , however , were dressed as minor noblemen -- they were allowed to wear colorful vests , and they stood a little confidently .
2771 had-were Structures were generally darkest at the top , where the ash gathered , but rainwaters and evening condensations had carried the stains over ledges and down walls .
2772 had-were Both were difficult in the Final Empire , especially in Luthadel , but she would find a way , if she had to .
2773 had-were The nobility had Allomancy and privilege because of their ancestors ; the skaa were punished for the same reason .
2774 had-were She had heard tales of what went abroad in the land at night , and the cover of the mists -- even pierced by tin as it now was -- made her feel as if she were being watched .
2775 had-were We were overconfident , but we had reason to be .
2776 had-were The grounds were kept well maintained , and though the ash had n't been cleaned up yet , the low-cut grass meant that she did n't have to hold her dress up much to keep it from dragging .
2777 had-were She had been hearing his whispers in her mind less frequently lately , but they were still there .
2778 had-were There were no guards , but the tower ahead of her had a lit sentrypost at its base .
2779 had-were The skaa were packed so closely , she wondered how they even had room to breathe .
2780 had-were Kelsier had been right : Though polite groups met at balls , the nobility were more than willing to stab each other square in the chest if it benefited them .
2781 had-were Some noble houses were falling , but there did n't seem to be the air of general chaos that Kelsier had wanted .
2782 had-were Could have been ... The events of the last day were difficult enough to sort through ; Vin had n't even tried to make sense of her emotions , which were a far bigger mess .
2783 had-were `` He also had harsh words for teachers unions , saying , `` If I were , not president , but if I were king in America , I would abolish all teachers ' lounges where they sit together and worry about ` woe is us . ' ''
2784 had-were And the National Counterterrorism Center has diverted analysts working on longer-term extremist threats to focus on the Islamic State , also called ISIS or ISIL , intelligence officials said.In June , the F.B.I. had so many people under surveillance in terrorism-related investigations - mostly related to the Islamic State - that supervisors reassigned criminal squads to monitor terrorism suspects.For all the concern , there have been no Qaeda attacks in the United States in 14 years , though some were thwarted or fell apart .
2785 had-were It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
2786 hammond-return `` I hate to sound contrary again -- that 's usually Hammond 's job -- but I do have to return to our earlier problem .
2787 hanging-obscuring Mists curled around him , obscuring his vision , making him feel as if he were n't falling at all -- but hanging in the middle of nothingness .
2788 happen-has Senator Mitch McConnell , the majority leader , has said no way.But some Republican members of Congress - who also happen to be running for president ' - have other plans for a fight over funding Planned Parenthood .
2789 happen-kelcy Mr. Perry 's advisers were uncertain what would happen with the super PAC money , but noted that much of it came from a pair of Dallas executives , Kelcy Warren and Darwin Deason , and that they would be consulted .
2790 happened-re `` You 're angry because of what happened .
2791 happened-wish I will record what happened , but I will keep it to myself for a while , if you wish . ''
2792 happening-pointed He pointed at the courtyard with its red fountains -- a visible sign of death for the thousands of skaa too far away to even tell what was happening .
2793 happening-risen ` National security issues have really risen to the top in the presidential race , and that 's because of what we 've seen happening around the world and in part because of the ineffective policies of this administration , ' Ms. Ayotte said.Even last week , as former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida sought to distance himself from his brother 's foreign policy record at a speech in Chicago , he found himself embracing the sort of muscular engagement that had characterized the 43rd president 's administration.The former Florida governor called nonstate terrorist groups such as the Islamic State ` perhaps the greatest security threat that we now face for our own homeland .
2794 happening-treated And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
2795 happening-treated And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
2796 happening-treated And many of them would say that our Shia citizens are full citizens and are treated fairly , but what I think is undeniable is that the sectarian forces that have been unleashed are adding to the viciousness and destructiveness of what 's happening in a place like Syria , what 's happening in a place like Yemen , what 's happening certainly in Iraq .
2797 happening-were But I think that if I were succeeded by a Republican president - and I 'll be doing everything that I can to prevent that from happening - but if I were , that Republican president would be in a much stronger position than I was when I came into office , in terms of constraining Iran 's nuclear program .
2798 happening-were I know why it was happening , because an electrical current in its nodes were still firing , ' Ms. O'Donnell said .
2799 happens-thinks For example , many of them including Mr. Frum advocate a significantly more restrictive immigration policy , arguing that high immigration levels , particularly for low-skilled workers , cut against the economic interests of ordinary Americans.Hmm.There happens to be a Republican candidate for president who wants less immigration but also thinks it 's ` outrageous ' how little tax some rich people pay , and he 's doing pretty well in the polls .
2800 harbor-tolerated This was the real reason they tolerated him -- the reason even the timid peasants would harbor a man such as Kelsier , a skaa who defied the Lord Ruler 's will by traveling from plantation to plantation .
2801 has-hendrik ` His lack of knowledge in the foreign policy area has been a problem because , well , you want your commander in chief to be confident on those issues , ' said Bruce Perlo , chairman of the Grafton County Republican Committee in New Hampshire.Recognizing the problem , Mr. Walker has joined in hourslong meetings in Washington ; Madison , Wis. ; and elsewhere for tutorials on the Islamic State , Iran , Russia and military and geopolitical confrontations , as well as human rights abuses , border security and immigration policy , and other issues , advisers said.He has relied on Republicans such as former Senator Jim Talent of Missouri , who leads Mr. Walker 's national security advisory council , and Andrew Bremberg , his policy director , who previously was a top aide to the Senate majority leader , Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.In recent months , Mr. Walker has also met or spoken with Prime Ministers Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel as part of a trip to Israel , David Cameron of Britain and Stephen Harper of Canada ; Presidents Xi Jinping of China and Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia ; retired military leaders such as former Gen. David H. Petraeus and former Gen. Jack Keane ; and a number of American and foreign ambassadors.Aides to Mr. Walker provided this list in response to questions about his briefings ; they declined a request to interview Mr. Walker.General Keane , in an email , said he had provided an analysis of global security challenges facing the United States , which he has done for several other candidates from both parties .
2802 has-mentioned So far , the logbook has n't even mentioned Allomancy . ''
2803 has-ordered One man , Lord Renoux , has even ordered his taskmasters to stop unauthorized beatings .
2804 has-said Mr. Bush , with $ 103 million in super PAC money behind him , has a significant lead on Mr. Carson in outside financial support.But Carson campaign officials said in interviews that they were unconcerned .
2805 has-said ` Hillary 's playbook has been clear from the start : divide and conquer , because she has no other path to victory , ' said the spokesman , Tim Miller .
2806 has-said But he has nonetheless raised doubts about his preparedness for a presidential campaign.Early on , he ` punted ' on questions about evolution ; he said he did not know whether President Obama was a Christian ; he argued that his experience facing down protesters in Madison prepared him to defeat the Islamic State ; and he quickly shifted positions on ethanol and immigration to align with the preferences of Iowa voters.More recently , Mr. Walker has struggled to find the right balance between appealing to the party 's conservative base and the rest of the party , particularly electability-minded donors .
2807 has-said He said he would not accept spending bills that maintained tough budget caps he agreed to in 2011 , nor would he loosen budget controls on military spending without relaxing them for domestic programs.But hidden in some of his most ambitious proposals to diminish the wealth gap and remake the corporate tax code are areas of potential compromise that nod to Republican ideas : an expansion of the earned income credit for the working poor , a revitalized Pentagon budget , and a surge in spending on roads , bridges , airports and other infrastructure , financed by a new tax rate on foreign corporate profits.Absent from the plan is any pretense of remaking the main drivers of the long-term debt - Social Security and Medicare - a quest that has long eluded both parties .
2808 has-said The fact that so many are threatened by him is a sign of how the Republican Party ca n't deal with some deviations from conventional thought , '' she said.Those attacks have dwindled of late , no doubt because Paul has struggled to raise money , mount a disciplined campaign and break through the primal roar of the Trump movement .
2809 has-said ` Asked if he believed that , given the depth of Iran 's civil society , which in 2009 launched a ` green revolution ' challenging clerical rule , the forces there for greater integration with the world would be empowered by this deal , the president said : ` With respect to Iran , it is a great civilization , but it also has an authoritarian theocracy in charge that is anti-American , anti-Israeli , anti-Semitic , sponsors terrorism , and there are a whole host of real profound differences that we have with them , ' said the president .
2810 has-said Several candidates vying for the Republican nomination have vowed to pull out of the Iran deal , upend the Affordable Care Act and end some Obama immigration policies.Obama has n't endorsed any of the Democratic contenders , though he 's said Clinton - his former rival-turned ally - would make an excellent president .
2811 has-said `` Twitter has been a successful avenue of fundraising for campaigns in the past , and this will make it even more attractive to campaigns as they look at how to allocate precious dollars , '' said Vincent Harris , a digital strategist for the Paul campaign .
2812 has-said ` If party leaders see a scenario next winter where Bernie Sanders has a real chance at the Democratic nomination , I think there 's no question that leaders will reach out to Vice President Biden or Secretary of State Kerry or even Gore about entering the primaries , ' said Garnet F. Coleman , a Texas state lawmaker and Democratic national committeeman.Even if none of those Democrats were to announce candidacies this fall , some party officials and strategists suggested that Mr. Biden could be laying the groundwork for an 11th-hour rescue mission during the winter primaries if Mrs. Clinton 's campaign began to implode .
2813 has-said Mr. Kerry has said recently that he has no plans to run for president , but he also said in February that ` nobody ever says never .
2814 has-said Mr. Kerry has said recently that he has no plans to run for president , but he also said in February that ` nobody ever says never .
2815 has-said ` Mr. O'Malley has declined to criticize Mrs. Clinton over her email use , but he has suggested that it is a legitimate issue.But he said the party was making a ` horrible mistake ' if the contest was ` defined by the latest questions of the day ' that ` Secretary Clinton and her lawyers can only answer . '
2816 has-said ` Your wallet is the best ballot , ' said Barrett Silver , who signed the parent petition urging the prom to be relocated.Officials at Horace Greeley said that they were open to moving the prom , which takes place next spring , but that the decision would ultimately be left to the students , who finance and organize the event.The business losses from moving the 300-person prom is unlikely to sting Mr. Trump , who has absorbed millions of dollars in severed corporate ventures since he started his presidential campaign in June .
2817 has-said ` Your wallet is the best ballot , ' said Barrett Silver , who signed the parent petition urging the prom to be relocated.Officials at Horace Greeley said that they were open to moving the prom , which takes place next spring , but that the decision would ultimately be left to the students , who finance and organize the event.The business losses from moving the 300-person prom is unlikely to sting Mr. Trump , who has absorbed millions of dollars in severed corporate ventures since he started his presidential campaign in June .
2818 has-said Mr. Olson , who farms 2,000 acres of corn and soybeans , said in an interview that Deez Nuts was his son Brady , who begins his sophomore year in high school next week.Like any surging candidate , Deez Nuts has been besieged with requests from the national news media since becoming an Internet meme , but has said he would be interviewed only by email .
2819 has-said Mr. Olson , who farms 2,000 acres of corn and soybeans , said in an interview that Deez Nuts was his son Brady , who begins his sophomore year in high school next week.Like any surging candidate , Deez Nuts has been besieged with requests from the national news media since becoming an Internet meme , but has said he would be interviewed only by email .
2820 has-said Kabila , who has been in power since 2001 , has remained quiet about his future in politics , but Congo has never had a peaceful transfer of power in its 55 years of independence.The new U.S. special envoy to the Great Lakes , Thomas Perriello , met with Kabila on Wednesday before holding his first press conference there.The election process is as important as election day and `` many partners must be involved in ensuring a truly free and transparent elections cycle here , '' he said.Tensions have been high between the president and opposition parties , who fear election delays could keep Kabila in office beyond constitutional limits.Kabila called for a dialogue in June but opposition parties refused to participate without international mediation .
2821 has-said Kabila , who has been in power since 2001 , has remained quiet about his future in politics , but Congo has never had a peaceful transfer of power in its 55 years of independence.The new U.S. special envoy to the Great Lakes , Thomas Perriello , met with Kabila on Wednesday before holding his first press conference there.The election process is as important as election day and `` many partners must be involved in ensuring a truly free and transparent elections cycle here , '' he said.Tensions have been high between the president and opposition parties , who fear election delays could keep Kabila in office beyond constitutional limits.Kabila called for a dialogue in June but opposition parties refused to participate without international mediation .
2822 has-said But he said that as a general matter , it has been the government 's practice to use broad language covering all of Verizon 's entities in headings of such court orders because it has a complex corporate structure , regardless of whether any specific part was required to provide information under that order.Most of the inspector general reports , unlike the letter , contained redactions .
2823 has-said Her main rival , Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders , has said the U.S. needs to be part of the global response to the crisis but has not offered a specific number.O ` Malley , a top fundraiser during Obama 's re-election campaign , has struggled against Clinton and Sanders .
2824 has-said Her main rival , Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders , has said the U.S. needs to be part of the global response to the crisis but has not offered a specific number.O ` Malley , a top fundraiser during Obama 's re-election campaign , has struggled against Clinton and Sanders .
2825 has-said `` Trump will be Trump , Ben will be Ben , and the contrast could n't be clearer , '' Bennett said.In contrast to other campaigns , no one has been playing Trump during Carson 's debate preparation sessions , which are somewhat unusual .
2826 has-said Ramos , who has been called the Walter Cronkite of Latino America for the tremendous influence he holds with Hispanic viewers , said that he could not recall Spanish-language news media covering a story as aggressively as it has Mr. Trump 's candidacy.And though cable news and the Sunday morning news shows have blanketed their political coverage with stories about many aspects of Mr. Trump 's improbable campaign , the focus of Spanish-language news programs has been almost exclusively on Mr. Trump 's controversial stance on immigration.About 58 percent of all mentions of Mr. Trump in mainstream news media - broadcast , cable , radio and online outlets - in the past month have focused on immigration , while on Spanish-language news programs , the proportion is almost 80 percent , according to an analysis by Two .42 .
2827 has-said The Spanish-language news media has also been more critical in its coverage of Mr. Trump 's positions on the issue , with nearly all of it negative in tone.José Díaz-Balart , the main anchor for Telemundo and MSNBC who takes a straight-news approach to his coverage and does not consider himself an advocate , nonetheless said that because of its viewership , Telemundo has delved deeper into the specifics of Mr. Trump 's immigration plan than many English-language outlets and has covered his candidacy with a sense of ` urgency . ''
2828 has-said The Spanish-language news media has also been more critical in its coverage of Mr. Trump 's positions on the issue , with nearly all of it negative in tone.José Díaz-Balart , the main anchor for Telemundo and MSNBC who takes a straight-news approach to his coverage and does not consider himself an advocate , nonetheless said that because of its viewership , Telemundo has delved deeper into the specifics of Mr. Trump 's immigration plan than many English-language outlets and has covered his candidacy with a sense of ` urgency . ''
2829 has-said The Spanish-language news media has also been more critical in its coverage of Mr. Trump 's positions on the issue , with nearly all of it negative in tone.José Díaz-Balart , the main anchor for Telemundo and MSNBC who takes a straight-news approach to his coverage and does not consider himself an advocate , nonetheless said that because of its viewership , Telemundo has delved deeper into the specifics of Mr. Trump 's immigration plan than many English-language outlets and has covered his candidacy with a sense of ` urgency . ''
2830 has-said I think that no one here in South Carolina has any illusions that Lindsey Graham is on a fast track or even near the front part of the pack in that crowded group , ' said Robert Wislinski , a political strategist in the state.In previous election cycles , that might not have been the case for someone with Mr. Graham 's credentials .
2831 has-said ` Reform conservatism is based on a recognition that the American economy has not served middle-income people well , not just since the crisis of 2008 but at least since the year 2000 , ' said David Frum , the prominent Canadian-American conservative journalist and former speechwriter for George W. Bush who serves as a senior editor at The Atlantic.Though the reform conservatives dissent from conservative tax orthodoxy , they are not necessarily moderates .
2832 has-said ` His lack of knowledge in the foreign policy area has been a problem because , well , you want your commander in chief to be confident on those issues , ' said Bruce Perlo , chairman of the Grafton County Republican Committee in New Hampshire.Recognizing the problem , Mr. Walker has joined in hourslong meetings in Washington ; Madison , Wis. ; and elsewhere for tutorials on the Islamic State , Iran , Russia and military and geopolitical confrontations , as well as human rights abuses , border security and immigration policy , and other issues , advisers said.He has relied on Republicans such as former Senator Jim Talent of Missouri , who leads Mr. Walker 's national security advisory council , and Andrew Bremberg , his policy director , who previously was a top aide to the Senate majority leader , Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.In recent months , Mr. Walker has also met or spoken with Prime Ministers Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel as part of a trip to Israel , David Cameron of Britain and Stephen Harper of Canada ; Presidents Xi Jinping of China and Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia ; retired military leaders such as former Gen. David H. Petraeus and former Gen. Jack Keane ; and a number of American and foreign ambassadors.Aides to Mr. Walker provided this list in response to questions about his briefings ; they declined a request to interview Mr. Walker.General Keane , in an email , said he had provided an analysis of global security challenges facing the United States , which he has done for several other candidates from both parties .
2833 has-said ` His lack of knowledge in the foreign policy area has been a problem because , well , you want your commander in chief to be confident on those issues , ' said Bruce Perlo , chairman of the Grafton County Republican Committee in New Hampshire.Recognizing the problem , Mr. Walker has joined in hourslong meetings in Washington ; Madison , Wis. ; and elsewhere for tutorials on the Islamic State , Iran , Russia and military and geopolitical confrontations , as well as human rights abuses , border security and immigration policy , and other issues , advisers said.He has relied on Republicans such as former Senator Jim Talent of Missouri , who leads Mr. Walker 's national security advisory council , and Andrew Bremberg , his policy director , who previously was a top aide to the Senate majority leader , Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.In recent months , Mr. Walker has also met or spoken with Prime Ministers Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel as part of a trip to Israel , David Cameron of Britain and Stephen Harper of Canada ; Presidents Xi Jinping of China and Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia ; retired military leaders such as former Gen. David H. Petraeus and former Gen. Jack Keane ; and a number of American and foreign ambassadors.Aides to Mr. Walker provided this list in response to questions about his briefings ; they declined a request to interview Mr. Walker.General Keane , in an email , said he had provided an analysis of global security challenges facing the United States , which he has done for several other candidates from both parties .
2834 has-said ` His lack of knowledge in the foreign policy area has been a problem because , well , you want your commander in chief to be confident on those issues , ' said Bruce Perlo , chairman of the Grafton County Republican Committee in New Hampshire.Recognizing the problem , Mr. Walker has joined in hourslong meetings in Washington ; Madison , Wis. ; and elsewhere for tutorials on the Islamic State , Iran , Russia and military and geopolitical confrontations , as well as human rights abuses , border security and immigration policy , and other issues , advisers said.He has relied on Republicans such as former Senator Jim Talent of Missouri , who leads Mr. Walker 's national security advisory council , and Andrew Bremberg , his policy director , who previously was a top aide to the Senate majority leader , Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.In recent months , Mr. Walker has also met or spoken with Prime Ministers Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel as part of a trip to Israel , David Cameron of Britain and Stephen Harper of Canada ; Presidents Xi Jinping of China and Toomas Hendrik Ilves of Estonia ; retired military leaders such as former Gen. David H. Petraeus and former Gen. Jack Keane ; and a number of American and foreign ambassadors.Aides to Mr. Walker provided this list in response to questions about his briefings ; they declined a request to interview Mr. Walker.General Keane , in an email , said he had provided an analysis of global security challenges facing the United States , which he has done for several other candidates from both parties .
2835 has-said The opening has also sparked speculation that Vice President Joe Biden could be a late entry into the Democratic contest.But it 's the surveys showing voters have questions about Clinton 's integrity that are the most troubling for her campaign.In a recent Quinnipiac University poll , 61 percent of voters said they did not consider Clinton honest and trustworthy compared to 34 percent who did ascribe those qualities to her .
2836 has-said Graham has formed a similar group , Security Through Strength , and has begun traveling to early nominating states to discuss what he calls ` the threat of radical Islam ' as he ponders a presidential run.Mike Rogers , the former Michigan representative and the former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee , is not considering a presidential bid , but he is trying to influence the 2016 race by creating an organization called Americans for Peace Prosperity and Security , which he said would support candidates ` who understand the importance of American engagement . '
2837 has-said Graham has formed a similar group , Security Through Strength , and has begun traveling to early nominating states to discuss what he calls ` the threat of radical Islam ' as he ponders a presidential run.Mike Rogers , the former Michigan representative and the former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee , is not considering a presidential bid , but he is trying to influence the 2016 race by creating an organization called Americans for Peace Prosperity and Security , which he said would support candidates ` who understand the importance of American engagement . '
2838 has-said He repeated his assertion that the `` war on drugs has been a failure , '' but said , `` that does n't mean we should be legalizing gateway drugs . ''
2839 has-said He said he was talking specifically about Planned Parenthood but he has been attacked repeatedly by Hillary Clinton for the line .
2840 has-said ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
2841 has-said ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
2842 has-said It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
2843 has-said She also backs a new Securities and Exchange Commission rule requiring publicly traded companies to disclose political activity.She said she would also sign an executive order requiring federal contractors to fully disclose all political spending.But each proposal has run into fierce resistance from Republicans and business groups .
2844 has-said Some of those donors may again be tapped to write checks.The people in the room had concerns about the current course of the campaign , people briefed on what happened said , asking for anonymity in order to describe private conversations.Aides to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Biden declined comment.But Mr. Podesta acknowledged the campaign has had challenges .
2845 has-said Mr. Bush has said he is his own man , as some critics have sought to tether him to his brother 's legacy , but Mr. Bush has also made clear in several speeches his love for the former president .
2846 has-said His enthusiasm is growing ' Mr. Sugarman said , because ` people are responsive to what he is saying in a larger venue than has ever been the case before , and probably because they agree with him . '
2847 has-said The law also included a stringent voter ID requirement that has since been softened and was not included in the current trial.The ` cumulative impact ' of all these changes at once imposed a burden on minority voters that is illegal under the Voting Rights Act and also the 14th and 15th Amendments , said Daniel T. Donovan , a lawyer with Kirkland and Ellis who was arguing on behalf of the North Carolina N.A.A.C.P.But an expert testifying for the state , Trey Hood , a political scientist at the University of Georgia , said he could find no evidence that the altered rules hampered black voting in 2014 .
2848 has-seem ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
2849 has-seem ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
2850 has-seem Link said he told him : ` Sanders has real energy and people are for Hillary but do n't seem superenthused .
2851 have-import The same is true , by the way , for the possibility that Iran might import materials that could be used for nuclear programs but might have a dual use .
2852 have-is I do n't have time to talk about somebody else , ' Mr. Kasich said , adding that he was fully occupied , like Mr. Carson , with introducing himself to voters.Responding to a question from a voter about how he had similarly deflected the topic of Mr. Trump in a CNN interview , Mr. Kasich even avoided mentioning the unlikely Republican poll-leader by name.For a while , that is.He eventually gave in to temptation , after uncorking a metaphor about how his much-praised debate performance was akin to being an astronaut launched in a rocket ship .
2853 have-is Trump may have a lot of money , but he is refusing to spend it on his campaign , like by buying television ads , spending on ballot access , or paying for campaign rallies , The Wall Street Journal reports.The fact that former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas , Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , and Mr. Santorum are continuing their campaigns despite fund-raising woes shows how ` super PACs ' can keep failing campaigns alive , Politico reports.Connie 's Fried Chicken in Tupelo , Miss. , has a small dining area , maybe enough to seat 30 or 40 .
2854 have-is Although there 's little evidence of a crime wave outside of a few major cities where homicides have increased , the political rationale seems obvious : The candidates are playing to the G.O.P. base , a normal part of the primary season.Another possibility , though , is that Republicans are also still searching for the best angle of attack against Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Democrats , who remain narrow betting market favorites in 2016 .
2855 have-is Marco Rubio , perhaps the only candidate who appeals more broadly throughout the party than Mr. Walker , does not have a natural base of support in the party and has struggled to break through.But a straightforward path to victory is no guarantee of victory .
2856 have-is ` Everybody agrees we have to fix our infrastructure ; everybody agrees our tax system does n't work , ' said Jeffrey Zients , director of the president 's National Economic Council , who spoke of ` strategic alignment ' on tax changes and infrastructure as well as ` specific alignments ' on the earned income credit.For Republicans in Congress , however , the great strategic cause is balancing the budget .
2857 have-is Those factors may have created conditions for his candidacy to thrive , but his personality , celebrity and boldness , not merely his populism and policy stances , have let him take advantage of them.Tellingly , when asked to explain support for Mr. Trump in their own words , voters of varying backgrounds used much the same language , calling him ` ballsy ' and saying they admired that he ` tells it like it is ' and relished how he ` is n't politically correct .
2858 have-is Those factors may have created conditions for his candidacy to thrive , but his personality , celebrity and boldness , not merely his populism and policy stances , have let him take advantage of them.Tellingly , when asked to explain support for Mr. Trump in their own words , voters of varying backgrounds used much the same language , calling him ` ballsy ' and saying they admired that he ` tells it like it is ' and relished how he ` is n't politically correct .
2859 have-is In no small measure because of Wolfowitz 's erroneous predictions , the neocon brand came to be ridiculed during the early stages of the Iraq war , only to be vindicated somewhat by the triumph of the 2007 troop surge , which quelled Sunni violence and stabilized the Shia-dominated government.Throughout that period , not every hawk self-identified as a neocon , including Fontaine , who told me , '' Where I come down on this is I believe in the promotion of human rights and democracy , but there are times when you have to have pragmatic relationships with autocracies . ''
2860 have-is In no small measure because of Wolfowitz 's erroneous predictions , the neocon brand came to be ridiculed during the early stages of the Iraq war , only to be vindicated somewhat by the triumph of the 2007 troop surge , which quelled Sunni violence and stabilized the Shia-dominated government.Throughout that period , not every hawk self-identified as a neocon , including Fontaine , who told me , '' Where I come down on this is I believe in the promotion of human rights and democracy , but there are times when you have to have pragmatic relationships with autocracies . ''
2861 have-is The other recourse would have been to drive Qaddafi out of power but then '' continue to be involved post-conflict , to help ensure that the government that emerges is a partner . ''
2862 have-is ` Asked if he believed that , given the depth of Iran 's civil society , which in 2009 launched a ` green revolution ' challenging clerical rule , the forces there for greater integration with the world would be empowered by this deal , the president said : ` With respect to Iran , it is a great civilization , but it also has an authoritarian theocracy in charge that is anti-American , anti-Israeli , anti-Semitic , sponsors terrorism , and there are a whole host of real profound differences that we have with them , ' said the president .
2863 have-is The key , he insists , is how well you curb it and verify its limitations : ` Now , Prime Minister Netanyahu would prefer , and many of the critics would prefer , that they do n't even have any nuclear capacity .
2864 have-is And if they saw us walking away from what technical experts believe is a legitimate mechanism to ensure that Iran does not have a nuclear weapon - if they saw that our diplomatic efforts were not sincere , or were trying to encompass not just the nuclear program , but every policy disagreement that we might have with Iran , then frankly , those sanctions would start falling apart very rapidly .
2865 have-is ` It strikes me that the one party that we have heard the least from , but in the end could count the most , is the Iranian people and how they ultimately react to this opening of Iran to the world as a result of this deal .
2866 have-is ` Yeah , but here 's where having somebody like Energy Secretary Ernie Moniz is pretty helpful , because he assured us that if , in fact , we have good mechanisms to scoop up and sample earth , this stuff has got a long half-life .
2867 have-is The same is true , by the way , for the possibility that Iran might import materials that could be used for nuclear programs but might have a dual use .
2868 have-is ` Well , I have n't learned yet to trust the Iranian leadership , ' said Mr. Obama , ` although I think that what John Kerry learned in his interactions with Foreign Minister Zarif - and that then traces back to President Rouhani - is that when you nail down an agreement , they do seem to follow it to the letter , perhaps thinking there may be a loophole here or there , which is why you have to button this stuff down .
2869 have-is ` Well , I have n't learned yet to trust the Iranian leadership , ' said Mr. Obama , ` although I think that what John Kerry learned in his interactions with Foreign Minister Zarif - and that then traces back to President Rouhani - is that when you nail down an agreement , they do seem to follow it to the letter , perhaps thinking there may be a loophole here or there , which is why you have to button this stuff down .
2870 have-is ` In the same way that when Ronald Reagan and others negotiated arms agreement with the Soviet Union , you had to recognize , yes , this is an evil , terrible system , but within it are people with specific historic ideas and memories , and we have to be able to understand those things and potentially try to make some connection .
2871 have-is A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
2872 have-is A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
2873 have-is A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
2874 have-is A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
2875 have-is A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
2876 have-is A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
2877 have-is HSINCHU , Taiwan - Taiwan 's military blasted shells into the ocean Thursday , one in a series of exercises this week to simulate attacks by political rival China after Beijing staged what appeared to be a mock strike against the presidential office in Taipei.The exercises , larger this year than in the past , follow televised images from China on July 22 depicting a staged ground troop attack on a red tower and attached low-rises that resembled Taiwan 's presidential compound.China is Taiwan 's only major potential military threat , though the two sides have shelved political differences since 2008 .
2878 have-is Mr. Jeffries would not have to give up his seat in Congress to run , but a divisive Democratic primary battle could imperil the good will he has built up in the party , and undermine the congressman 's glide path in Washington.With the buzz surrounding Mr. Jeffries 's aspirations approaching a fever pitch , the Rev. Al Sharpton , one of the mayor 's most influential supporters , offered the congressman some sober advice in a huddle earlier this summer , on the sidelines of a rally for Mr. Sharpton 's National Action Network.According to people familiar with the conversation , who spoke about a private meeting on the condition of anonymity , Mr. Sharpton emphasized that driving an incumbent out of City Hall is never easy - even for a young , charming and well-financed politician like Mr. Jeffries .
2879 have-is And he said that his party had drifted rightward enough that someone like Ronald Reagan would have difficulty finding a receptive home in it.That assessment suggested one reason Bush is now deemed a centrist : The poles have moved.But much of his record in Florida is that of the ` headbanging conservative ' he claimed to be during a first , unsuccessful campaign for governor in 1994 .
2880 have-is And he said that his party had drifted rightward enough that someone like Ronald Reagan would have difficulty finding a receptive home in it.That assessment suggested one reason Bush is now deemed a centrist : The poles have moved.But much of his record in Florida is that of the ` headbanging conservative ' he claimed to be during a first , unsuccessful campaign for governor in 1994 .
2881 have-is He will also make stops later in the week in South Carolina , Iowa and Michigan.The political action committee supporting his election , New Day for America , has already spent more than $ 2 million on television advertising in the Boston market , which reaches into New Hampshire , where a new ad began running on Tuesday.Like Mr. McCain , Mr. Kasich is brusque and often combative - even his own aides describe him , euphemistically , as ` impatient ' - and questions about his temperament have dogged him throughout his career .
2882 have-is Obama will likely have to veto a resolution of disapproval by lawmakers , blemishing his signature foreign policy initiative , but he appears on track to garner enough from support from Democrats to hold off Republican override efforts.Obama is also hoping to avoid the second government shutdown of his presidency .
2883 have-is At the same time , if two Republican governors , Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Snyder in Michigan , win re-election , these two Midwestern states will shift in 2016 from the reliably Democratic column to competitive status.Details down to precinct level results in all the competitive races this year will be studied closely by party officials and political scientists to determine whether Republicans have caught up with Democrats in the world of big-data , high-tech voter mobilization.In the last two presidential elections , the Obama campaign and Democratic interest groups remained far ahead of Republicans in the so-called ground war techniques of locating favorable voters wherever they can be found , registering citizens likely to be supportive , and making sure every supporter casts a ballot , in person , by mail , or through early voting processes.In the current contest , however , both the Republican National Committee and the network of conservative groups allied with the Koch brothers have invested millions in microtargeting innovation , and are attempting to level the playing field.Estimates of the effectiveness of microtargeting vary , but , if the 2016 election is close , new digital strategies developed in recent years to marshal favorable voters will be crucial to the outcome.As the election campaign comes to a close , polls suggest that Republican candidates vulnerable to ` war on women ' accusations have learned how to successfully revamp.Senate candidates in Virginia , North Carolina and Colorado have adopted the strategy of signaling support for women 's reproductive rights by pointedly endorsing access to over-the-counter ` morning after ' contraceptive pills.Representative Cory Gardner , the Republican challenging Senator Mark Udall of Colorado , has not only called for the availability of the day-after pill , he has repudiated his past support for a ` personhood ' constitutional amendment that would effectively ban all abortions .
2884 have-is ` It 's like in old cartoons where you would have a stick of dynamite and a long fuse , except now the fuse is much shorter - the flash to bang is much faster , ' John P. Carlin , the assistant attorney general for national security , said in an interview.But critics say the return to a faster-moving approach raises the possibility that , in the rush to make arrests , the government is jeopardizing criminal cases and missing opportunities to gather intelligence .
2885 have-is Investigators have found no evidence that the gunman , Mohammod Abdulazeez , was in contact with the Islamic State , but they say they believe that he watched terrorist videos on the Internet , most likely making him the kind of self-radicalized killer that the F.B.I. is trying to stop.An event this spring in Boston illustrates how the authorities now react faster to potential violence , Mr. Comey said.In May , counterterrorism investigators began surveillance of Usaamah Abdullah Rahim , a 26-year-old man who been in touch with the Islamic State online .
2886 have-is When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
2887 have-is ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
2888 have-is ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
2889 have-is I think that no one here in South Carolina has any illusions that Lindsey Graham is on a fast track or even near the front part of the pack in that crowded group , ' said Robert Wislinski , a political strategist in the state.In previous election cycles , that might not have been the case for someone with Mr. Graham 's credentials .
2890 have-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
2891 have-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
2892 have-is `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
2893 have-is ` Trump served notice that the donors ' platform is n't even acceptable inside the party , ' Mr. Frum said.Of course , there are reasons the reformocons have not lined up to support Mr. Trump .
2894 have-is ` If Trump is n't offering workable solutions but he is identifying problems that others have ignored , the hope is some more policy-focused , more governance-focused competitor will make use of the opportunity that Trump has publicized , ' Mr. Frum said.In an analogy that wo n't make anyone very comfortable , he said Mr. Trump could be useful in the same way George Wallace was in 1968 : ` Wallace talked about a lot of issues , many of them pretty dismaying , but he also seized on the crime issue .
2895 have-is The dollar amount is expected to be disclosed soon.But some potential donors have said in recent weeks that Mr. Walker 's busy schedule was not an issue for them ; rather , they were taking a wait-and-see approach on Mr. Walker.Advisers to Mr. Walker emphasized that policy briefings were not the only important way that he had educated himself on the issues .
2896 have-is There is no way one person , even an Inquisitor , could have done all this .
2897 have-is The plan is good , but I have this terrible , haunting feeling that we 'll never succeed as long as he 's alive .
2898 have-is `` I have never met this Survivor , but I doubt he is in Luthadel -- if , indeed , he even lives . ''
2899 have-is However , this is n't much of a problem -- though it does mean that you 're going to have to be very careful when dealing with House Venture , Lord Renoux .
2900 have-is This plan of his is insane , and I 'm sure he 's partially doing it just so he can enrich himself , but ... well , he did n't have to go to the rebellion .
2901 have-is I know it 's hard to see -- things have been this way for so long -- but something very serious is wrong with the way skaa live .
2902 have-is Many do not realize that it is sentient , but I have sensed its mind , such that it is , the few times I have confronted it directly .
2903 have-is Many do not realize that it is sentient , but I have sensed its mind , such that it is , the few times I have confronted it directly .
2904 have-is I have n't had the opportunity to associate much with your brother , but I must say that the man is obviously a genius ! ''
2905 have-is I have no such fears ; even disregarding the Terris prophecies , I have brought such chaos , conflict , and hope to this world that there is little chance that I will be forgotten .
2906 have-is `` Once , maybe I would have thought you a fool , but ... well , that 's kind of what trust is , is n't it ?
2907 have-is `` Once , maybe I would have thought you a fool , but ... well , that 's kind of what trust is , is n't it ?
2908 have-is WASHINGTON - Since the attacks of Sept. 11 , 2001 , American counterterrorism officials have increased security at national landmarks and large public events ahead of major holidays or significant anniversaries , and issued bulletins calling for increased vigilance by the public.But this Fourth of July weekend has spawned particularly strong warnings about a potential attack as the federal authorities and national security experts say the United States is more susceptible now because of tactics chosen for recent terrorist strikes by the Islamic State.Officials cite an increased effort by the Islamic State to galvanize its sympathizers in the United States and elsewhere since Memorial Day and during this Ramadan season to carry out acts of violence on their own - so-called lone-wolf attacks .
2909 have-is And most of the Islamic State-inspired plots so far have been unsophisticated but increasingly difficult for the authorities to detect in advance.American officials say this is not a black-and-white debate between those who worry more about Al Qaeda as the main threat to the homeland and those who say it is the Islamic State .
2910 have-is And most of the Islamic State-inspired plots so far have been unsophisticated but increasingly difficult for the authorities to detect in advance.American officials say this is not a black-and-white debate between those who worry more about Al Qaeda as the main threat to the homeland and those who say it is the Islamic State .
2911 have-is A major reason this year 's Republican field is so wide and deep is because candidates have access to more donations via super PACs .
2912 have-is A major reason this year 's Republican field is so wide and deep is because candidates have access to more donations via super PACs .
2913 have-is It is because the metropolises of Beijing and Tianjin and adjacent Hebei province have become too uncoordinated and unbalanced in terms of their economic development and social progress over the past more than three decades.No matter how developed and modern Beijing is as the capital , it is no secret that its development has been accompanied by ills such as traffic congestion , too large a population , too high housing prices , serious air pollution caused by car exhaust emissions and industrial pollution from adjacent areas .
2914 have-is During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
2915 have-is Fears have faded that Greece will be forced to drop out of the eurozone , but the country 's economy is still in a shambles and there is uncertainty about whether a stable government will emerge after national elections scheduled for Sept. 20 .
2916 have-is Fears have faded that Greece will be forced to drop out of the eurozone , but the country 's economy is still in a shambles and there is uncertainty about whether a stable government will emerge after national elections scheduled for Sept. 20 .
2917 have-live I have n't even told Kell which city they live in . ''
2918 have-quelled In no small measure because of Wolfowitz 's erroneous predictions , the neocon brand came to be ridiculed during the early stages of the Iraq war , only to be vindicated somewhat by the triumph of the 2007 troop surge , which quelled Sunni violence and stabilized the Shia-dominated government.Throughout that period , not every hawk self-identified as a neocon , including Fontaine , who told me , '' Where I come down on this is I believe in the promotion of human rights and democracy , but there are times when you have to have pragmatic relationships with autocracies . ''
2919 have-quelled In no small measure because of Wolfowitz 's erroneous predictions , the neocon brand came to be ridiculed during the early stages of the Iraq war , only to be vindicated somewhat by the triumph of the 2007 troop surge , which quelled Sunni violence and stabilized the Shia-dominated government.Throughout that period , not every hawk self-identified as a neocon , including Fontaine , who told me , '' Where I come down on this is I believe in the promotion of human rights and democracy , but there are times when you have to have pragmatic relationships with autocracies . ''
2920 have-re ` You 're not going to find any of the Republicans , even those who might well have behaved like Obama , standing up and defending Obama , ' said Richard Perle , a pro-interventionist defense official who served in the Reagan administration.The movement of Republican public opinion is striking .
2921 have-re They 're jealous because we control most of the canal systems -- and they might just have a right to be .
2922 have-re They may not have education , but they 're still intelligent .
2923 have-re They 're quiet , but I guess you just have to focus hard enough to -- '' `` Vin , '' Kelsier interrupted .
2924 have-re ` They 're important , but we have to be realistic . '
2925 have-re ` You 're not going to find any of the Republicans , even those who might well have behaved like Obama , standing up and defending Obama , ' said Richard Perle , a pro-interventionist defense official who served in the Reagan administration.The movement of Republican public opinion is striking .
2926 have-re They 're jealous because we control most of the canal systems -- and they might just have a right to be .
2927 have-re They may not have education , but they 're still intelligent .
2928 have-re They 're quiet , but I guess you just have to focus hard enough to -- '' `` Vin , '' Kelsier interrupted .
2929 have-re ` They 're important , but we have to be realistic . '
2930 have-return I shall return , however , after I have located Master Kelsier . ''
2931 have-s The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
2932 have-s ` The document is undergirded by two major presidential initiatives that have virtually no chance in Congress : large tax increases on multinational corporations and the rich , and a comprehensive immigration law that would lift the economy with millions of newly legalized , taxpaying workers.The proceeds of those initiatives would pay for free community college , more generous child care subsidies and education tax credits , paid sick leave , expanded unemployment benefits , and tax credits for two-earner middle-class couples , among other offerings.The White House even did away with the usual plain blue budget document cover for a gritty black-and-white photo of the Tappan Zee Bridge in New York , making vivid the president 's emphasis on ' a 21st-century infrastructure that creates jobs for thousands of construction workers and engineers , connects hard-working Americans to their jobs , and makes it easier for businesses to transport goods , ' as Mr. Obama wrote in the opening budget message.The push reflects the degree to which Mr. Obama emerged from last year 's midterm election losses determined to reinforce - rather than scale back - his belief that the government should play a fundamental role in spreading economic prosperity .
2933 have-s ` Yeah , but here 's where having somebody like Energy Secretary Ernie Moniz is pretty helpful , because he assured us that if , in fact , we have good mechanisms to scoop up and sample earth , this stuff has got a long half-life .
2934 have-s Several candidates vying for the Republican nomination have vowed to pull out of the Iran deal , upend the Affordable Care Act and end some Obama immigration policies.Obama has n't endorsed any of the Democratic contenders , though he 's said Clinton - his former rival-turned ally - would make an excellent president .
2935 have-s At the moment , Mr. Obama 's approval ratings and the pace of economic growth are consistent with a close , competitive race , in which the Republicans might have a slight but uncertain edge.There were signs in last year 's midterm elections that dissatisfaction with Mr. Obama 's performance was costing Democrats among white voters without a college degree , most obviously in the countryside of Iowa and Colorado .
2936 have-s Those 2014 results suggest that Republicans have a route to winning the White House , even if it 's a narrower one than the Democrats ' path.Yes , Mrs. Clinton has a large lead over her likeliest Republican challengers in national polls , including in many of the most important battleground states .
2937 have-s For years , Republicans have argued that the United States should not take unilateral action on climate change because it would hamstring the economy while China , the world 's largest carbon polluter , failed to act .
2938 have-s I would say Mr. Nuts is the most ludicrous and unqualified third-party candidate you could have , but he 's still polling at 7 , 8 , 9 percent , '' Mr. Jensen said .
2939 have-s And last year , when the government declassified documents about an aborted challenge to the program by a phone company in late 2009 , it redacted the firm 's name , but officials said it was Sprint.The Justice Department letter confirms that both of those companies have been participants.But the document also contained a surprise .
2940 have-s Mr. Jeffries would not have to give up his seat in Congress to run , but a divisive Democratic primary battle could imperil the good will he has built up in the party , and undermine the congressman 's glide path in Washington.With the buzz surrounding Mr. Jeffries 's aspirations approaching a fever pitch , the Rev. Al Sharpton , one of the mayor 's most influential supporters , offered the congressman some sober advice in a huddle earlier this summer , on the sidelines of a rally for Mr. Sharpton 's National Action Network.According to people familiar with the conversation , who spoke about a private meeting on the condition of anonymity , Mr. Sharpton emphasized that driving an incumbent out of City Hall is never easy - even for a young , charming and well-financed politician like Mr. Jeffries .
2941 have-s Mr. Jeffries would not have to give up his seat in Congress to run , but a divisive Democratic primary battle could imperil the good will he has built up in the party , and undermine the congressman 's glide path in Washington.With the buzz surrounding Mr. Jeffries 's aspirations approaching a fever pitch , the Rev. Al Sharpton , one of the mayor 's most influential supporters , offered the congressman some sober advice in a huddle earlier this summer , on the sidelines of a rally for Mr. Sharpton 's National Action Network.According to people familiar with the conversation , who spoke about a private meeting on the condition of anonymity , Mr. Sharpton emphasized that driving an incumbent out of City Hall is never easy - even for a young , charming and well-financed politician like Mr. Jeffries .
2942 have-s Mr. Jeffries would not have to give up his seat in Congress to run , but a divisive Democratic primary battle could imperil the good will he has built up in the party , and undermine the congressman 's glide path in Washington.With the buzz surrounding Mr. Jeffries 's aspirations approaching a fever pitch , the Rev. Al Sharpton , one of the mayor 's most influential supporters , offered the congressman some sober advice in a huddle earlier this summer , on the sidelines of a rally for Mr. Sharpton 's National Action Network.According to people familiar with the conversation , who spoke about a private meeting on the condition of anonymity , Mr. Sharpton emphasized that driving an incumbent out of City Hall is never easy - even for a young , charming and well-financed politician like Mr. Jeffries .
2943 have-s Mr. Jeffries would not have to give up his seat in Congress to run , but a divisive Democratic primary battle could imperil the good will he has built up in the party , and undermine the congressman 's glide path in Washington.With the buzz surrounding Mr. Jeffries 's aspirations approaching a fever pitch , the Rev. Al Sharpton , one of the mayor 's most influential supporters , offered the congressman some sober advice in a huddle earlier this summer , on the sidelines of a rally for Mr. Sharpton 's National Action Network.According to people familiar with the conversation , who spoke about a private meeting on the condition of anonymity , Mr. Sharpton emphasized that driving an incumbent out of City Hall is never easy - even for a young , charming and well-financed politician like Mr. Jeffries .
2944 have-s ` The 2016 presidential candidates and their individual-candidate super PACs are wiping out the nation 's anticorruption candidate contribution limits , ' said Fred Wertheimer , the president of Democracy 21 , which favors tighter limits on political money.But the looser rules for super PACs have also helped expand the pool of candidates , letting a small number of very wealthy people jump-start contenders who might otherwise not make it to the first primary contests next year .
2945 have-s Ramos , who has been called the Walter Cronkite of Latino America for the tremendous influence he holds with Hispanic viewers , said that he could not recall Spanish-language news media covering a story as aggressively as it has Mr. Trump 's candidacy.And though cable news and the Sunday morning news shows have blanketed their political coverage with stories about many aspects of Mr. Trump 's improbable campaign , the focus of Spanish-language news programs has been almost exclusively on Mr. Trump 's controversial stance on immigration.About 58 percent of all mentions of Mr. Trump in mainstream news media - broadcast , cable , radio and online outlets - in the past month have focused on immigration , while on Spanish-language news programs , the proportion is almost 80 percent , according to an analysis by Two .42 .
2946 have-s Ramos , who has been called the Walter Cronkite of Latino America for the tremendous influence he holds with Hispanic viewers , said that he could not recall Spanish-language news media covering a story as aggressively as it has Mr. Trump 's candidacy.And though cable news and the Sunday morning news shows have blanketed their political coverage with stories about many aspects of Mr. Trump 's improbable campaign , the focus of Spanish-language news programs has been almost exclusively on Mr. Trump 's controversial stance on immigration.About 58 percent of all mentions of Mr. Trump in mainstream news media - broadcast , cable , radio and online outlets - in the past month have focused on immigration , while on Spanish-language news programs , the proportion is almost 80 percent , according to an analysis by Two .42 .
2947 have-s When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
2948 have-s ` The governor should step up and face the serious cases of corruption that have occurred under her watch , ' said the state 's Democratic Party chairwoman , Deb Haaland , although none of the recent cases have been proved in court .
2949 have-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
2950 have-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
2951 have-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
2952 have-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
2953 have-s Irene Gallo , the art director at Tor , does a brilliant job -- it 's because of her that both this book and Elantris have the wonderful covers that they do .
2954 have-s `` I know it 's instinctual , Vin , but you do n't have to put your hands forward when you Push -- nor do you have to drop what you 're holding . ''
2955 have-s `` I know it 's instinctual , Vin , but you do n't have to put your hands forward when you Push -- nor do you have to drop what you 're holding . ''
2956 have-s It 's blackish and translucent , but it does n't have a shadowlike solid outline .
2957 have-s This plan of his is insane , and I 'm sure he 's partially doing it just so he can enrich himself , but ... well , he did n't have to go to the rebellion .
2958 have-s `` Look , I know that it 's fashionable for the women of court to label all men brutes , but you have to believe me .
2959 have-s She should n't have exploded at Kelsier , but everything that had happened ... the fight , Elend 's betrayal ... it just left her feeling frustrated .
2960 have-s Felt thinks she 's a thief , but there have to be other reasons a group like that would send someone to balls .
2961 have-s We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
2962 have-s We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
2963 have-s We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
2964 have-s We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
2965 have-s We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
2966 have-s We have a lot of guys who do n't have connections to others in the U.S. who have shown some interest online in ISIS , but it 's unclear how serious they are so we 've had to keep on them , ' the official said.Intelligence officials have seen at least one Twitter message of an Islamic State supporter citing the United States government 's warnings for this holiday weekend - apparently in boastful terms .
2967 have-s ___ 12:20 p.m.Ohio Gov. John Kasich is n't backing away from his support for the Common Core standards , which separates him from many of his GOP rivals.Kasich says he believes in higher standards , with local school boards developing curricula to meet those benchmarks.Kasich spoke to a group of education advocates at a forum kicking off a busy day of campaigning in the early-voting state of New Hampshire.While many of his fellow Republican governors have backed away from Common Core , Kasich says he 's not going to change his position `` because there 's four people in the front row yelling at me . ''
2968 have-s ` Unlike some people who offer themselves for president in 2016 , you wo n't have to wonder whether I can do it or not , ' he said , invoking the ` economic calamity ' he said he inherited in 2010 and the ` unprecedented natural disaster , ' Hurricane Sandy , that he weathered as governor.But he reserved his deepest disdain for Congress and for the president 's stewardship of foreign affairs , and extended that critique to President Obama 's former secretary of state .
2969 have-s ` Unlike some people who offer themselves for president in 2016 , you wo n't have to wonder whether I can do it or not , ' he said , invoking the ` economic calamity ' he said he inherited in 2010 and the ` unprecedented natural disaster , ' Hurricane Sandy , that he weathered as governor.But he reserved his deepest disdain for Congress and for the president 's stewardship of foreign affairs , and extended that critique to President Obama 's former secretary of state .
2970 have-s Republicans in the House and Senate armed services committees have now proposed budgets consistent with the $ 499 billion in the 2011 budget agreement but suggested raising the O.C.O. account from Mr. Obama 's $ 51 billion to around $ 90 billion.The nation 's security needs are not static .
2971 have-s Republicans in the House and Senate armed services committees have now proposed budgets consistent with the $ 499 billion in the 2011 budget agreement but suggested raising the O.C.O. account from Mr. Obama 's $ 51 billion to around $ 90 billion.The nation 's security needs are not static .
2972 have-s A major reason this year 's Republican field is so wide and deep is because candidates have access to more donations via super PACs .
2973 have-s During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
2974 have-s ` There 's a genuine fondness for the vice president , but I do n't think there 's a yearning for him to get in the race , ' said former Gov. Jim Hodges of South Carolina.Still , Mrs. Clinton 's closest aides have privately expressed concerns that the campaign would have to spend heavily to defeat Mr. Biden in a primary .
2975 have-s ` There 's a genuine fondness for the vice president , but I do n't think there 's a yearning for him to get in the race , ' said former Gov. Jim Hodges of South Carolina.Still , Mrs. Clinton 's closest aides have privately expressed concerns that the campaign would have to spend heavily to defeat Mr. Biden in a primary .
2976 have-s Fears have faded that Greece will be forced to drop out of the eurozone , but the country 's economy is still in a shambles and there is uncertainty about whether a stable government will emerge after national elections scheduled for Sept. 20 .
2977 have-s The legislators who sponsored the 2013 law have refused to testify , citing legislative immunity.During closing arguments Friday , Judge Schroeder , who was appointed by President George W. Bush , peppered the plaintiffs ' lawyers with questions about why the repeal of extra voting opportunities that do not exist in many states would be illegal.But he also pressed the state 's lawyers on what motivated legislators to make the sudden changes to a system that seemed to be popular and working well .
2978 have-s Democrats have no preferred candidate in New Hampshire and North Carolina , and Republicans lack one in Colorado.But the Democrats ' goal of recapturing the Senate , which would require gaining four or five seats , depending on the results of the presidential race , and the Republicans ' hope of fending them off will almost certainly be tied to the fate of each party 's presidential candidate and how voters assess the legacy of President Obama .
2979 have-seemed ` The president said he knows he is going to have a fight on his hands with Mr. Netanyahu and those in Congress who share the prime minister 's views , but he seemed confident that in the end he would prevail.Mr .
2980 have-seemed Perhaps another might have found the room cramped and spartan , but to Vin it seemed lavish .
2981 have-seemed They seemed enthusiastic about their training , but that might have just been due to the regular meals .
2982 have-seemed The legislators who sponsored the 2013 law have refused to testify , citing legislative immunity.During closing arguments Friday , Judge Schroeder , who was appointed by President George W. Bush , peppered the plaintiffs ' lawyers with questions about why the repeal of extra voting opportunities that do not exist in many states would be illegal.But he also pressed the state 's lawyers on what motivated legislators to make the sudden changes to a system that seemed to be popular and working well .
2983 have-succeed `` We 'll succeed because we have vision , Breeze .
2984 have-swaying But the party has succeeded in swaying voters even if conservatives have big reservations , as was the case with Mr. McCain in 2008 and Mitt Romney in 2012 .
2985 have-tell I could tell you ... but then , what would I have in return ?
2986 have-verify ` You know , I have a lot of differences with Ronald Reagan , but where I completely admire him was his recognition that if you were able to verify an agreement that was negotiated with the evil empire that was hellbent on our destruction and was a far greater existential threat to us than Iran will ever be , ' then it would be worth doing , Mr. Obama said . '
2987 have-verify The key , he insists , is how well you curb it and verify its limitations : ` Now , Prime Minister Netanyahu would prefer , and many of the critics would prefer , that they do n't even have any nuclear capacity .
2988 having-scoop ` Yeah , but here 's where having somebody like Energy Secretary Ernie Moniz is pretty helpful , because he assured us that if , in fact , we have good mechanisms to scoop up and sample earth , this stuff has got a long half-life .
2989 having-was A flat roof meant having to shovel off ash occasionally , which was why most skaa buildings were peaked , but in Kelsier 's opinion the view was often worth a bit of trouble .
2990 having-was Perhaps she was a fool , but Kelsier was having an effect on her .
2991 head-led In hypothetical head-to-head polling matchups , she even led in places such as Texas against home-state candidates like Rick Perry .
2992 hear-seize He seems to go through the motions of reaching for the emotional connection that other candidates try to seize , referring to the joy of childbirth as ` extraordinary , unbelievable , O.K. , ' before quickly shifting to the dearth of family leave time for working women.But the people do n't come to hear Mr. Sanders 's story .
2993 hear-share I normally do n't hear cases in person , but Laird 's absence has made it necessary for me to share in some of his work . ''
2994 hear-stepped He stepped forward , but Vin could barely hear his words .
2995 hear-writes ` It 's the message that 's breaking through , delivered in a way only Donald Trump can deliver it , ' NPR writes , and ` Trump 's supporters are n't with him because they want to hear the wonky details .
2996 heard-implying `` Well , I heard that Tren-Pedri is n't at all interested in a union with House Aime , though her father is implying that there will be a wedding soon .
2997 heard-matched Wagner said that she had never heard of Jeb Bush but that his plans to meet with conservatives in Berlin matched her perception of President George W. Bush as ` just a politician who is interested in money , his own private interests and those of a certain political class . ''
2998 heard-pierced She had heard tales of what went abroad in the land at night , and the cover of the mists -- even pierced by tin as it now was -- made her feel as if she were being watched .
2999 heard-seen He 'd never seen one of the inhuman creatures , but he had heard ... stories .
3000 heard-seen Vin had heard of the metal , but she had never actually seen any .
3001 heard-seen He 'd never seen one of the inhuman creatures , but he had heard ... stories .
3002 heard-seen Vin had heard of the metal , but she had never actually seen any .
3003 hearing-reinstate The Justice Department asked the judge , Thomas D. Schroeder of Federal District Court , who is hearing the case with no jury , not only to block the 2013 law , but also to reinstate strong federal oversight of election practices in North Carolina.That oversight came to an end in 2013 , when the Supreme Court effectively struck down a crucial provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 , which required federal approval of election changes in states with histories of discrimination , including North Carolina .
3004 hearing-sneak We managed to sneak one of our best men up to the building itself -- we do n't think he was spotted -- but he had a remarkably difficult time hearing what 's going on inside .
3005 hearing-were She had been hearing his whispers in her mind less frequently lately , but they were still there .
3006 heed-scouting On burglaries or scouting missions , she had occasionally seen ornamental plants , but she 'd never given them much heed -- they , like many noble interests , had seemed frivolous to her .
3007 heightened-seem All together , the room made it seem as if even the regular Venture perfection had been heightened .
3008 held-named The new provinces have been named , but elections for governors and other leaders have yet to be held.Before voting for a new president in 2016 , the Democratic Republic of Congo must go through a series of elections on the local and provincial levels .
3009 held-spoke Vin almost spoke further , but she held her tongue .
3010 help-hoping Kelsier 's words about altruism and working to help the skaa were all well and good , but I was always hoping that we 'd still get to take a swipe at that treasury . ''
3011 help-hoping European Central Bank purchases would help raise the market value of those bonds and help restore confidence in the country 's banks.And Greeks who have withdrawn cash from their accounts might begin depositing money again and help the banking system return to normal.But economists and investors hoping for powerful action by the European Central Bank on Thursday may be disappointed .
3012 help-hoping European Central Bank purchases would help raise the market value of those bonds and help restore confidence in the country 's banks.And Greeks who have withdrawn cash from their accounts might begin depositing money again and help the banking system return to normal.But economists and investors hoping for powerful action by the European Central Bank on Thursday may be disappointed .
3013 help-hoping European Central Bank purchases would help raise the market value of those bonds and help restore confidence in the country 's banks.And Greeks who have withdrawn cash from their accounts might begin depositing money again and help the banking system return to normal.But economists and investors hoping for powerful action by the European Central Bank on Thursday may be disappointed .
3014 help-learn You can not help here -- there is beauty in compassion , but one must learn wisdom too . ''
3015 help-save Sazed had arrived to save her , but he would n't be able to help this time .
3016 helps-is But it helps explain a lot , such as why favorability ratings can move so much , even when there is relatively little new information about a candidate .
3017 helps-supposed It helps explain why , on the other hand , supposed game-changers often seem to have no effect .
3018 hid-looked He looked innocuous , but Kelsier knew the strength that Sazed hid .
3019 hid-was She was a quiet , small thing , but she hid an intensity that he found impressive .
3020 hidden-know I know they 're intelligent because of the things they keep hidden from the nobility . ''
3021 hidden-wearing `` I keep some of my reserves hidden -- but wearing many rings , earrings , and other items of jewelry has always been a part of Terris culture .
3022 hide-join Had she really been that girl -- one who would hide in the cold darkness , watching the laughter and friendship with a hidden envy , but never daring to join it ?
3023 hide-staring He knew that he had her captive ; she could n't hide , or even sit at the window , staring out into the mists .
3024 hides-make This cloud -- called a coppercloud -- hides anyone inside of it from the senses of a Seeker , though it wo n't make them immune to emotional Allomancy , like it will you . ''
3025 hiking-know It will take a few more hours of hiking to reach it , but I know that it is the right place .
3026 hinted-try Mr. Obama did not try to sugar coat their differences , but he hinted that his administration has in the works some significant strategic upgrades for both Israel and America 's gulf allies . '
3027 hire-prefer Because of their reputation , they generally prefer to remain unseen -- though some of the noble houses hire them on occasion . ''
3028 hired-sipping `` You hired us because you wanted extraordinary results , my dear man , '' Breeze said , sipping his wine .
3029 hit-says When Mr. Trump sharply criticized his record in Wisconsin , Mr. Walker hit back : ` Just because he says it does n't make it true .
3030 hits-said `` There does n't appear to be any pattern in the Inquisitor hits , however , '' Breeze said .
3031 hold-raise We might be able to raise Yeden an army -- we might even be able to get him one large enough to hold the city for a while .
3032 hold-raising Cuomo is expected to headline a fund-raising event for Mr. Jeffries 's congressional campaign this fall , according to one Democrat who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the details of the event are still in flux.In an interview , Mr. Jeffries called the mayor 's clash with Mr. Cuomo a reckless mistake , given the broad power governors hold over city affairs .
3033 hold-raising ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
3034 hold-sat The massive `` room '' was large enough to hold the entire army of seven thousand men , though many sat in side chambers or halfway out into tunnels .
3035 hold-started The effort started in Sarawak because the state is due to hold local elections by August 2016 .
3036 holding-ignored Many had servants holding up parasols against the ash , but it was falling lightly enough that some just ignored it .
3037 holding-re `` Last word was that the Holstep fortifications are holding -- but Ham , they 're only a thousand men strong .
3038 holds-overstated But for now , the damage to Mrs. Clinton has been overstated.You might not know it if you 're reading the various articles about Mr. Sanders 's rise in the polls , but Mrs. Clinton still holds as strong a position as any primary candidate in history .
3039 hollered-treating Mr. Bush hollered as cameras snapped away.And even as Democratic candidates have expressed dismay over Uber 's treating its drivers as independent contractors instead of full-time employees who could receive health care and retirement benefits , they are reluctant to criticize the company .
3040 hope-suppose It is too much , I suppose , to even hope for .
3041 hoped-were Ashfalls were n't that uncommon in the Final Empire , but Tresting had hoped to avoid getting soot stains on his fine new suit coat and red vest , which had just arrived via canal boat from Luthadel itself .
3042 horrified-made True , many of the nobility made light of the experience , but there were some small minority who looked horrified .
3043 hosts-is Now , in the heart of Clintonland , another one of Donald J. Trump 's business interests is under pressure because of his remarks about Mexican immigrants : his Westchester County golf club , which hosts high school proms .
3044 hosts-moved ` South Carolina , which hosts the first primary in the South , could play an outsize role in the 2016 Republican nomination process , even as many Southern states have moved their contests earlier .
3045 huddled-peeked Weak lights peeked from the occasional window , but the tiny beads of illumination were huddled , frightened things .
3046 hung-lay Vin 's hair still was n't very long -- it barely hung down over her ears -- but at least it lay flat .
3047 hurled-offer WESTHAMPTON BEACH , N.Y. - When Jeb Bush stopped by the Hampton Synagogue here on Saturday , he was expected to offer a critique of the Iran deal and a short version of his stump speech to the Orthodox congregation.But something else was on his mind : the insults hurled at him by Donald J. Trump .
3048 hurt-loving `` You do n't stop loving someone just because they hurt you , '' he said .
3049 hurt-was Her arm hurt a bit , but it was mostly numb .
3050 hurts-stops ` One senior law enforcement official said that ` if moving quickly stops an attack but hurts our prosecutions , then that 's the price you have to pay to prevent violence . '
3051 identified-moved Since 1964 , the Republican Party has become , in effect , a white party.The 1964 election began the realignment from Democrat to Republican of the eleven states of the former Confederacy -- including the Deep South of South Carolina , Georgia , Alabama , Louisiana and Mississippi - the region most opposed to civil rights and voting rights for black Americans.In the wake of the 1964 Johnson-Goldwater contest , the national Democratic Party became identified with racial and ethnic liberalism.By 1981-82 , in large part because of the enfranchisement of blacks after passage of the 1965 Voting Rights Act , Southern Democrats , once the hard-core backers of segregation , moved sharply to the left on racial issues .
3052 idolized-recounted He recounted stories of his grandfather , a Cuban immigrant whose English was shaky but who idolized Ronald Reagan .
3053 ignore-mixed A nobleman pedestrian was not an irregular sight , especially in the commercial district , where more fortunate skaa and less fortunate noblemen mixed on the streets -- though each group did its best to ignore the other .
3054 ignored-realized She realized that she had always been able to feel it , but she usually ignored it .
3055 ignored-winked Kelsier smiled , winked , but ignored the question .
3056 illuminated-kredik The sun was setting , making it even easier to see the illuminated Keep Venture -- Elend 's choice of headquarters for the moment , though he might still move to Kredik Shaw .
3057 imagine-seemed She tried to imagine trees with green leaves , but the image seemed silly .
3058 imagine-strolled She strolled along the second balcony , wearing a pure white gown -- an outfit she would never have been able to even imagine during her life as a skaa .
3059 imitate-knew She certainly would n't be able to imitate that -- she barely even knew the basic steps .
3060 imitating-knew Camon had been good at imitating noblemen because of his self-confidence , and that was one attribute Vin knew she did n't have .
3061 impersonating-let Flen was sure it was just a mistwraith impersonating her , but I had to let her in !
3062 impersonating-struck Camon had been skilled at impersonating noblemen , but his self-importance had always struck Vin as a bit juvenile .
3063 imply-used Mr. Trump 's campaign slogan is ` Make America Great Again , ' which Reagan used in his 1980 race against Jimmy Carter.But Mr. Rubio has taken to criticizing Mr. Trump for using Reagan 's words to imply the country is not great . '
3064 imposing-tended The Ministry 's Canton of Finance was an imposing structure -- but , then , everything about the Steel Ministry tended to be imposing .
3065 impress-tresting True , even a lowly obligator like the ones Tresting employed could serve as such a witness -- but it meant so much more to impress Straff Venture 's own obligator .
3066 includes-win It includes party officials , politicians , political operatives , donors , activists , television pundits and radio hosts.Many candidates - ` factional ' candidates , as I described them in a taxonomy of primary candidates in April - can become the favorite of a major group of voters , lead the national polls for a time and even win states without broad support from party elites .
3067 includes-win To win the presidency , Republicans clearly need to improve their numbers among women , but their approach on reproductive issues appears likely to make that goal difficult.Further compounding the hurdles facing Republicans are the party 's current drive to defund Planned Parenthood , and the sustained effort to reduce the number of abortion clinics in Republican-controlled states.This effort includes legislation effectively closing such clinics by requiring , in the case of Texas , that ' a physician performing or inducing an abortion must , on the date the abortion is performed , have active admitting privileges at a hospital that is located not further than 30 miles from the location at which the abortion is performed , ' and that abortion facilities must meet the ` minimum standards for ambulatory surgical centers ' ; requiring women to undergo sometimes invasive ultrasound procedures before being allowed to have an abortion ; and imposing restrictions on abortion coverage in private health insurance plans.The conflicts over reproductive rights within both the Republican Party and within the social conservative movement are inevitable .
3068 including-missed ` In ignoring Mr. Obama , the governor may have missed an opportunity to gin up enthusiasm on the Republican right - a constituency that is already suspicious of him because of some of his moderate policy positions , including his expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act .
3069 increased-sazed Sazed 's mention of dancing , however , increased her discomfort .
3070 increasing-remember He could remember a time when Vin had looked frighteningly awkward in a dress , but she seemed to have taken an increasing liking to them .
3071 indicate-knew Elend smiled mischievously , then turned back to his book , eyes sparkling as if to indicate that he 'd made the comment simply because he knew the reaction he 'd get .
3072 indicate-viewing During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
3073 indicated-sighed Vin sighed , but did as he indicated , standing and walking over to take the last seat .
3074 indicates-transcends `` And now the U.S. is struggling to counter gains by the Islamic State in Iraq.The lack of success in that operation so far indicates that the next commander in chief will face challenges there - and beyond - with a smaller Army.America 's enemies , current and potential , know that.Yes , overdue federal fiscal restraint must include making our armed forces as lean and efficient as practically feasible.But as history has repeatedly taught , if America 's military strength is too severely compromised , our nation - and the world - will likely pay a tragic price that transcends monetary measure.Online : http://www.postandcourier.com/article/20150824/PC1002/150829730/1022/big-defense-cuts-big-risks
3075 indicates-wants ` The president says he wants to work with Congress , but everything he does indicates the opposite , ' said Representative Kevin McCarthy , Republican of California , the House majority leader .
3076 induced-serving It is a consistent part of his pitch to voters_that he 's `` very rich '' and therefore can not be induced to indulge a narrow special interest.The argument plays into the current political frustration with Washington , but it is as self-serving as it is dangerous to democracy .
3077 influence-vote The question now for the administration is not how Mr. Menendez will vote , but how much he will influence the votes of other Democrats .
3078 influenced-is The truth is that even if he never takes a nickel from a lobbyist , Mr. Trump will still be influenced by his largest campaign donor_himself .
3079 influenced-is ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
3080 influenced-rehire ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
3081 ingratiate-stay I will ingratiate myself to the court community , but I will stay quiet and out of trouble . ''
3082 inherit-pick `` A girl her age could inherit , but it would be suspicious for me to pick her .
3083 insert-sitting The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3084 intend-jog Kelsier did n't intend to walk , or even jog , to the caves .
3085 intend-sneak I do n't intend to meet the Lord Ruler , but I do intend to sneak into his stronghold .
3086 intended-looming The stance was obviously intended to be respectful , but his looming posture did n't help her mood any .
3087 intended-seemed He seemed interested in me at first , but now I do n't think he ever intended to pay me much attention .
3088 intended-tended Elend often intended to make his way to a stylist or tailor , but other things tended to steal his attention .
3089 intended-was It was more food than she could possibly eat ; however , she intended to scrape out the barley and save the flatbread , which would keep well should she need it later .
3090 intended-was The white and blue dress was beautiful -- though intended for daily use , it was only slightly less luxurious than one of her ball gowns .
3091 intervened-prevent He was a friend to gun owners : Florida 's ` Stand Your Ground ' law was enacted on his watch.In the case of Terri Schiavo , a Florida woman deemed by many physicians to be in a persistent vegetative state , he intervened on the side of her parents - but against the wishes of her husband , who was her legal guardian - to prevent the removal of a feeding tube .
3092 intrigued-wade Those who failed to cite Roe v. Wade would n't make it to the shortlist.Litmus tests can be problematic , for sure , but let 's be intrigued rather than shocked that opposition to Citizens United has emerged as the latest one .
3093 introduce-promised Perhaps I promised her parents -- distant but favored cousins -- that I would introduce their daughter to the court ?
3094 investigating-suspected The Inquisitors were n't investigating him because they suspected him .
3095 involved-playing His contract included playing the part of Lord Renoux , but he did n't wish to be involved in the plan anymore than he had to .
3096 involves-ventured Bush rarely involves himself in policy discussions nowadays , but he has ventured out on the issues that matter most to him .
3097 involving-said `` Yes , '' Breeze said , `` but it would take a particular crisis to require involving the Garrison .
3098 is-kill The Inquisitor was about to kill me , but ... Dox , what is he ? ''
3099 is-know The other is a Hasting , though I do n't know his given name . ''
3100 is-know I know it 's hard to see -- things have been this way for so long -- but something very serious is wrong with the way skaa live .
3101 is-know `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
3102 is-know `` You know , something must be wrong with me -- I barely even stop to think how much this stuff is worth anymore . ''
3103 is-know `` I do n't know why I even care -- anything you learn is bound to be worthless .
3104 is-know They know this is the last ball , and so they all came to put in an appearance , but they know they 've no time left for politicking . ''
3105 is-know A lot.A wide range of political science research suggests that if you want to know who will win the presidency , the state of the economy - and especially how economic conditions are changing - matters a great deal , perhaps even more than how charismatic the candidates are or how much money they raise.The election is 16 months away , but knowing what we know now , what should we expect the economic backdrop to be when Americans choose their next president ?
3106 is-know A lot.A wide range of political science research suggests that if you want to know who will win the presidency , the state of the economy - and especially how economic conditions are changing - matters a great deal , perhaps even more than how charismatic the candidates are or how much money they raise.The election is 16 months away , but knowing what we know now , what should we expect the economic backdrop to be when Americans choose their next president ?
3107 is-know I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3108 is-know `` And now the U.S. is struggling to counter gains by the Islamic State in Iraq.The lack of success in that operation so far indicates that the next commander in chief will face challenges there - and beyond - with a smaller Army.America 's enemies , current and potential , know that.Yes , overdue federal fiscal restraint must include making our armed forces as lean and efficient as practically feasible.But as history has repeatedly taught , if America 's military strength is too severely compromised , our nation - and the world - will likely pay a tragic price that transcends monetary measure.Online : http://www.postandcourier.com/article/20150824/PC1002/150829730/1022/big-defense-cuts-big-risks
3109 is-know Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
3110 is-ll You 'll go because this terrible life is familiar .
3111 is-ll The plan is good , but I have this terrible , haunting feeling that we 'll never succeed as long as he 's alive .
3112 is-ll We 'll grab the atium -- we 'll need it to support a new government -- but this job is n't about making me , or any of you , wealthy .
3113 is-ll We 'll grab the atium -- we 'll need it to support a new government -- but this job is n't about making me , or any of you , wealthy .
3114 is-matters The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to publicly discuss national security matters.Some F.B.I. investigators privately disagree with the intense focus , which draws resources away from other investigations and sometimes has led to frustration inside the bureau and the Justice Department.After years of watching for large-scale plots , investigators are now trying to identify and prevent shootings and stabbings - violence on a scale that is common in major American cities but has never been a priority for the F.B.I. Preventing Islamic State-inspired violence is a priority , and current and former investigators say they feel tremendous pressure to succeed .
3115 is-matters That is a poor number historically , but it was down from 8.6 percent a year earlier.Some research has found that the economy matters less when the race for the presidency is wide open , as it will be in 2016 , than when there is an incumbent on the ballot for whom the vote can be viewed as a referendum .
3116 is-met `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
3117 is-met `` I have never met this Survivor , but I doubt he is in Luthadel -- if , indeed , he even lives . ''
3118 is-noted He noted that Mr. de Blasio 's popularity has fallen among black New Yorkers , and said he believed it would be healthy for the city if Mr. de Blasio had a re-election fight.Though Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Stringer are most often discussed as potential opponents for the mayor in a Democratic primary , there is a longer list of possible challengers , including Ruben Diaz Jr. , the Bronx borough president ; Eric L. Adams , the Brooklyn borough president ; Letitia James , the public advocate ; and Melissa Mark-Viverito , the City Council speaker .
3119 is-noted The official noted , however , that ` the pool is much bigger than it 's ever been but it 's not nearly as deep . ''
3120 is-noted The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3121 is-noticed You 've probably noticed this before , but it certainly is beautiful down here sometimes . ''
3122 is-pewter Allomancer 's pewter , however , is an alloy of ninety-one percent tin , nine percent lead .
3123 is-pulled But the simple fact is that we are in a much more unstable place because American pulled back .
3124 is-recovered I thought that Mistress Vin had recovered some ancient religious text -- but it is of a far more mundane nature . ''
3125 is-recovered ` This country has still not recovered from its original sin , ' she says , but adds that the ` next question ' is , ` So what do you want me to do about it ?
3126 is-remains If the real estate mogul remains atop the polls heading into next year and denies attention to other hard-line candidates , Republicans could flock to support Mr. Bush , the safe , well-credentialed and well-funded son and brother of presidents , to stop Mr. Trump.But any long-term optimism is tempered by recognition that the race has become a grind , and that Mr. Trump has for now made the campaign about himself , his appeal and how far he can go .
3127 is-remains It remains well funded - earning close to $ 1 billion a year in oil revenues and taxes , according to Treasury Department estimates - and has expanded to other countries , including Libya , Afghanistan and the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt.Current and former counterterrorism and intelligence officials , as well as some lawmakers , who closely monitor risks overseas say that although the risks of the Islamic State are real , the overall threat is more complex and requires a nuanced strategy .
3128 is-remains ` Gen. Joseph L. Votel , head of the Pentagon 's Special Operations Command , said at the Aspen forum that the Islamic State is ` much more prominent right now , ' but added that Al Qaeda ` remains a very , very , significant concern for us .
3129 is-remember My high school physics probably is n't equal to Ernie Moniz 's , but I do remember it 's not that easy to suddenly just hide potentially radioactive material that 's been developed .
3130 is-remember Many Keepers have a particular area of interest -- mine is religion -- but we all remember the entire collection .
3131 is-rob Or , maybe she is a thief -- but not one who ever intended to rob me .
3132 is-s ` Certainly the G.O.P. and Trump are giving her good ammo , and it is funny , but she 's like a magician - ` Look over here , not at what 's really going on , '' ' said Richard Tafel , a Republican strategist , pointing to the inquiries related to her use of private email as secretary of state.Attacking the Republicans is not just an applause-line strategy , though .
3133 is-s Although there 's little evidence of a crime wave outside of a few major cities where homicides have increased , the political rationale seems obvious : The candidates are playing to the G.O.P. base , a normal part of the primary season.Another possibility , though , is that Republicans are also still searching for the best angle of attack against Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Democrats , who remain narrow betting market favorites in 2016 .
3134 is-s Whether he will do so is perhaps the biggest question of the race , in part because his performance to date has provided so many reasons to doubt he can do it.Nowhere are Mr. Walker 's advantages more obvious than in Iowa , where he holds a persistent lead in early polls .
3135 is-s ` The document is undergirded by two major presidential initiatives that have virtually no chance in Congress : large tax increases on multinational corporations and the rich , and a comprehensive immigration law that would lift the economy with millions of newly legalized , taxpaying workers.The proceeds of those initiatives would pay for free community college , more generous child care subsidies and education tax credits , paid sick leave , expanded unemployment benefits , and tax credits for two-earner middle-class couples , among other offerings.The White House even did away with the usual plain blue budget document cover for a gritty black-and-white photo of the Tappan Zee Bridge in New York , making vivid the president 's emphasis on ' a 21st-century infrastructure that creates jobs for thousands of construction workers and engineers , connects hard-working Americans to their jobs , and makes it easier for businesses to transport goods , ' as Mr. Obama wrote in the opening budget message.The push reflects the degree to which Mr. Obama emerged from last year 's midterm election losses determined to reinforce - rather than scale back - his belief that the government should play a fundamental role in spreading economic prosperity .
3136 is-s ` Everybody agrees we have to fix our infrastructure ; everybody agrees our tax system does n't work , ' said Jeffrey Zients , director of the president 's National Economic Council , who spoke of ` strategic alignment ' on tax changes and infrastructure as well as ` specific alignments ' on the earned income credit.For Republicans in Congress , however , the great strategic cause is balancing the budget .
3137 is-s The more we do those things , that 's the level of deterrence that 's necessary because it is highly unlikely that you are going to see Iran launch a direct attack , state to state , against any of our allies in the region .
3138 is-s The more we do those things , that 's the level of deterrence that 's necessary because it is highly unlikely that you are going to see Iran launch a direct attack , state to state , against any of our allies in the region .
3139 is-s My high school physics probably is n't equal to Ernie Moniz 's , but I do remember it 's not that easy to suddenly just hide potentially radioactive material that 's been developed .
3140 is-s My high school physics probably is n't equal to Ernie Moniz 's , but I do remember it 's not that easy to suddenly just hide potentially radioactive material that 's been developed .
3141 is-s In what he says is his effort to restore ` our Christian heritage , ' Mr. Lane 's American Renewal Project has already shown its influence in Iowa by helping to unseat three State Supreme Court justices who voted to allow same-sex marriage.But Mr. Lane 's ambitions are national - he focused on battleground states in 2014 and has built an email list of 100,000 pastors around the country.His goal now is to get 1,000 pastors to run for public office , and their potential support has drawn a virtual pilgrimage of conservative candidates eager to join the tours Mr. Lane organizes to Israel and to his ` Pastors and Pews ' events . '
3142 is-s His campaign and the Democratic National Committee are among the groups that say they 'll make use of Twitter 's new in-message fundraising.The DNC is interested in the new tool `` because we think it will help give people a chance to show their support without taking them away from one of the platforms where they 're getting their information , '' said Matt Compton , the group 's digital director.Twitter is working with Square Inc. , a financial services company , to collect the money and the information that the Federal Election Commission requires from political donors .
3143 is-s ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
3144 is-s ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
3145 is-s I would say Mr. Nuts is the most ludicrous and unqualified third-party candidate you could have , but he 's still polling at 7 , 8 , 9 percent , '' Mr. Jensen said .
3146 is-s It began issuing orders to phone companies to turn over their customers ' calling records.Its orders were based on a secret interpretation of a provision of the U.S.A. Patriot Act , known as Section 215 , which permits the F.B.I. to obtain business records deemed ` relevant ' to a national security investigation.The theory , accepted by the intelligence court but rejected in a recent appeals court ruling , is that everyone 's records are relevant to investigations hunting for terrorists because analyzing indirect links between callers can , in theory , reveal hidden relationships and sleeper cells.After praising the program as crucial to preventing terrorist attacks , intelligence agency officials now say that it has never thwarted one .
3147 is-s Cuomo is expected to headline a fund-raising event for Mr. Jeffries 's congressional campaign this fall , according to one Democrat who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the details of the event are still in flux.In an interview , Mr. Jeffries called the mayor 's clash with Mr. Cuomo a reckless mistake , given the broad power governors hold over city affairs .
3148 is-s He noted that Mr. de Blasio 's popularity has fallen among black New Yorkers , and said he believed it would be healthy for the city if Mr. de Blasio had a re-election fight.Though Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Stringer are most often discussed as potential opponents for the mayor in a Democratic primary , there is a longer list of possible challengers , including Ruben Diaz Jr. , the Bronx borough president ; Eric L. Adams , the Brooklyn borough president ; Letitia James , the public advocate ; and Melissa Mark-Viverito , the City Council speaker .
3149 is-s ` Democracy is always healthier whenever there 's a robust challenge and a battle of ideas , ' Mr. Jeffries said , adding , ` He should not get a free pass , but whether that means a Democratic primary challenge or a real race in the general election is something that 's above my pay grade .
3150 is-s ` Democracy is always healthier whenever there 's a robust challenge and a battle of ideas , ' Mr. Jeffries said , adding , ` He should not get a free pass , but whether that means a Democratic primary challenge or a real race in the general election is something that 's above my pay grade .
3151 is-s ` This is personal , and that 's the big difference between Spanish-language and mainstream media , because he 's talking about our parents , our friends , our kids and our babies , ' Mr. Ramos said in a telephone interview.Mr .
3152 is-s Ramos , who has been called the Walter Cronkite of Latino America for the tremendous influence he holds with Hispanic viewers , said that he could not recall Spanish-language news media covering a story as aggressively as it has Mr. Trump 's candidacy.And though cable news and the Sunday morning news shows have blanketed their political coverage with stories about many aspects of Mr. Trump 's improbable campaign , the focus of Spanish-language news programs has been almost exclusively on Mr. Trump 's controversial stance on immigration.About 58 percent of all mentions of Mr. Trump in mainstream news media - broadcast , cable , radio and online outlets - in the past month have focused on immigration , while on Spanish-language news programs , the proportion is almost 80 percent , according to an analysis by Two .42 .
3153 is-s ` It 's like in old cartoons where you would have a stick of dynamite and a long fuse , except now the fuse is much shorter - the flash to bang is much faster , ' John P. Carlin , the assistant attorney general for national security , said in an interview.But critics say the return to a faster-moving approach raises the possibility that , in the rush to make arrests , the government is jeopardizing criminal cases and missing opportunities to gather intelligence .
3154 is-s When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
3155 is-s When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
3156 is-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3157 is-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3158 is-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3159 is-s I think that no one here in South Carolina has any illusions that Lindsey Graham is on a fast track or even near the front part of the pack in that crowded group , ' said Robert Wislinski , a political strategist in the state.In previous election cycles , that might not have been the case for someone with Mr. Graham 's credentials .
3160 is-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
3161 is-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
3162 is-s `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
3163 is-s `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
3164 is-s `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
3165 is-s He , too , ultimately said he was sorry.While Clinton 's apology may ease the anxiety among some Democrats , it 's unlikely to end the political fallout.Republican National Committee spokeswoman Allison Moore suggested Tuesday that Clinton was only apologizing because `` she got caught and is dropping in the polls .
3166 is-s ` The guy who 's now got the biggest challenge because of this is Rand Paul , ' said Newt Gingrich , the former Republican House speaker .
3167 is-s `` There 's something homey about Luthadel -- even if it is a depressing , stark pit of a city .
3168 is-s `` The lass is a bit paranoid , but she 's not that bad .
3169 is-s He is a marvelous actor , but he feels very uncomfortable with people knowing the specifics of how he took Lord Renoux 's place .
3170 is-s The plan is good , but I have this terrible , haunting feeling that we 'll never succeed as long as he 's alive .
3171 is-s He 's making neither allies nor enemies at the moment -- he 's buying a large number of weapons and armor , but is probably just purchasing from a wide variety of houses and merchants , thereby ingratiating himself to them all .
3172 is-s He 's making neither allies nor enemies at the moment -- he 's buying a large number of weapons and armor , but is probably just purchasing from a wide variety of houses and merchants , thereby ingratiating himself to them all .
3173 is-s I know it 's hard to see -- things have been this way for so long -- but something very serious is wrong with the way skaa live .
3174 is-s `` Strength is a big part of fighting , but it 's not the only part .
3175 is-s You 've forgotten what that is , but it 's so nice ... .
3176 is-s `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
3177 is-s ___ 6:40 p.m.Billionaire Donald Trump is advocating for a progressive income tax , speaking out against a flat tax where everyone pays the same percentage no matter how much they earn.Trump says during the second Republican presidential debate that it 's not fair for someone who makes $ 50,000 a year to pay the same percentage in taxes as a millionaire.Trump also promises to release a tax reform plan in a couple weeks that hedge fund managers wo n't like , but that those in the middle class will.Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul disagrees , saying a flat 14.5 percent tax on everyone is the way to go .
3178 is-s ___ 6:05 p.m.New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is touting his anti-abortion rights record but stopping short of saying he 'd shut down the government to defund Planned Parenthood.Asked three times whether he would press to defund the women 's health organization even if it results in a government closure , Christie punted on the question.Christie says he 'd put it `` on the list '' of issues that Republicans should use to force a compromise from President Barack Obama , along with tax legislation.Christie has described the past government shutdown , which Republicans forced over the health care law , as a political misstep for the GOP .
3179 is-s ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
3180 is-s ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
3181 is-s ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
3182 is-s The official noted , however , that ` the pool is much bigger than it 's ever been but it 's not nearly as deep . ''
3183 is-s ___ 12:20 p.m.Ohio Gov. John Kasich is n't backing away from his support for the Common Core standards , which separates him from many of his GOP rivals.Kasich says he believes in higher standards , with local school boards developing curricula to meet those benchmarks.Kasich spoke to a group of education advocates at a forum kicking off a busy day of campaigning in the early-voting state of New Hampshire.While many of his fellow Republican governors have backed away from Common Core , Kasich says he 's not going to change his position `` because there 's four people in the front row yelling at me . ''
3184 is-s We want the world for them and a world that 's fully open to them.But we also want to win elections , and our coalition is what it is .
3185 is-s We want the world for them and a world that 's fully open to them.But we also want to win elections , and our coalition is what it is .
3186 is-s ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
3187 is-s And circumstances are anything but optimal for him : He faces a wide field of candidates , including several who are better financed and beloved by mainstream donors Jeb Bush , hold greater appeal to conservative voters who dominate the primary process Scott Walker , are agile public speakers with persuasive biographies Mr. Rubio , or are better liked by Republican voters all of the above.At his announcement , Mr. Christie sought political rebirth , as he has before , by relying on his powers as a narrator , and mythologizer , of his own story.Running for president is a new and bigger stage , though , and both Mr. Christie 's stagecraft and his oratory showed room for improvement .
3188 is-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3189 is-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3190 is-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3191 is-s Even now , his call to deport everyone who is in the U.S. illegally but let `` the good ones '' return quickly is considered a form of amnesty by some conservatives - not to mention impractical in the eyes of many.And the core of Cruz 's argument is that he 's a `` consistent conservative day in and day out . ''
3192 is-s Even now , his call to deport everyone who is in the U.S. illegally but let `` the good ones '' return quickly is considered a form of amnesty by some conservatives - not to mention impractical in the eyes of many.And the core of Cruz 's argument is that he 's a `` consistent conservative day in and day out . ''
3193 is-s Even now , his call to deport everyone who is in the U.S. illegally but let `` the good ones '' return quickly is considered a form of amnesty by some conservatives - not to mention impractical in the eyes of many.And the core of Cruz 's argument is that he 's a `` consistent conservative day in and day out . ''
3194 is-s I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3195 is-s I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3196 is-s One place to start is his argument that because he 's a billionaire who does n't depend on contributions from others , he 's somehow superior because he 's immune from political influence.The casino magnate refers to his competitors who accept political donations as `` puppets '' who are `` totally controlled by special interests , lobbyists and donors . ''
3197 is-s One place to start is his argument that because he 's a billionaire who does n't depend on contributions from others , he 's somehow superior because he 's immune from political influence.The casino magnate refers to his competitors who accept political donations as `` puppets '' who are `` totally controlled by special interests , lobbyists and donors . ''
3198 is-s It is a consistent part of his pitch to voters_that he 's `` very rich '' and therefore can not be induced to indulge a narrow special interest.The argument plays into the current political frustration with Washington , but it is as self-serving as it is dangerous to democracy .
3199 is-s It is a consistent part of his pitch to voters_that he 's `` very rich '' and therefore can not be induced to indulge a narrow special interest.The argument plays into the current political frustration with Washington , but it is as self-serving as it is dangerous to democracy .
3200 is-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
3201 is-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
3202 is-s `` And now the U.S. is struggling to counter gains by the Islamic State in Iraq.The lack of success in that operation so far indicates that the next commander in chief will face challenges there - and beyond - with a smaller Army.America 's enemies , current and potential , know that.Yes , overdue federal fiscal restraint must include making our armed forces as lean and efficient as practically feasible.But as history has repeatedly taught , if America 's military strength is too severely compromised , our nation - and the world - will likely pay a tragic price that transcends monetary measure.Online : http://www.postandcourier.com/article/20150824/PC1002/150829730/1022/big-defense-cuts-big-risks
3203 is-s For example , just read one recent paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.The two physicians in the debate , Ben Carson and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , argued that while science connecting vaccines and autism is lacking , spreading out the childhood vaccination schedule might be advisable.But that 's a position strongly opposed by the medical community - because there is no link between autism and vaccination , spacing vaccines will not reduce the risk of a child developing autism.But because many parents ask for such delayed schedules , doctors often accommodate such demands , putting children at risk of catching diseases before they are vaccinated or potentially failing to complete their recommended vaccines.Failing to vaccinate children has clear health risks .
3204 is-s For example , just read one recent paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.The two physicians in the debate , Ben Carson and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , argued that while science connecting vaccines and autism is lacking , spreading out the childhood vaccination schedule might be advisable.But that 's a position strongly opposed by the medical community - because there is no link between autism and vaccination , spacing vaccines will not reduce the risk of a child developing autism.But because many parents ask for such delayed schedules , doctors often accommodate such demands , putting children at risk of catching diseases before they are vaccinated or potentially failing to complete their recommended vaccines.Failing to vaccinate children has clear health risks .
3205 is-s The crisis in Greece has faded , for now at least.But on Thursday , when Mr. Draghi presides at a regularly scheduled meeting of the central bank 's Governing Council , he will need to address the welter of new and in some cases unexpected threats from around the globe , which could create pressure for yet more stimulus spending.A slowdown in the economy of China and other emerging markets has prompted wild swings in stock prices , although markets were relatively calm on Wednesday.The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates in the United States as early as this month , possibly causing borrowing costs to rise in the eurozone before growth is strong enough.Some economists are even warning again about the eurozone 's lapsing into deflation , a broad decline in prices that is considered poisonous to growth and employment.An influx of refugees into Europe from Syria and other conflict zones , while outside the purview of monetary policy , adds to the uncertainty .
3206 is-s The crisis in Greece has faded , for now at least.But on Thursday , when Mr. Draghi presides at a regularly scheduled meeting of the central bank 's Governing Council , he will need to address the welter of new and in some cases unexpected threats from around the globe , which could create pressure for yet more stimulus spending.A slowdown in the economy of China and other emerging markets has prompted wild swings in stock prices , although markets were relatively calm on Wednesday.The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates in the United States as early as this month , possibly causing borrowing costs to rise in the eurozone before growth is strong enough.Some economists are even warning again about the eurozone 's lapsing into deflation , a broad decline in prices that is considered poisonous to growth and employment.An influx of refugees into Europe from Syria and other conflict zones , while outside the purview of monetary policy , adds to the uncertainty .
3207 is-s Mr. Trump 's campaign slogan is ` Make America Great Again , ' which Reagan used in his 1980 race against Jimmy Carter.But Mr. Rubio has taken to criticizing Mr. Trump for using Reagan 's words to imply the country is not great . '
3208 is-s ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
3209 is-s I 'm not saying that everything is great in the U.S. economy , because it is n't .
3210 is-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
3211 is-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
3212 is-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
3213 is-s Indeed , Mr. Bush 's hapless attempt at a takedown suggests that his political team still does n't get it , and thinks that pointing out The Donald 's heresies will be enough to doom his campaign.But Mr. Trump , who is self-financing , did n't need to genuflect to the big money , and it turns out that the base does n't mind his heresies .
3214 is-s ` Certainly the G.O.P. and Trump are giving her good ammo , and it is funny , but she 's like a magician - ` Look over here , not at what 's really going on , '' ' said Richard Tafel , a Republican strategist , pointing to the inquiries related to her use of private email as secretary of state.Attacking the Republicans is not just an applause-line strategy , though .
3215 is-s Although there 's little evidence of a crime wave outside of a few major cities where homicides have increased , the political rationale seems obvious : The candidates are playing to the G.O.P. base , a normal part of the primary season.Another possibility , though , is that Republicans are also still searching for the best angle of attack against Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Democrats , who remain narrow betting market favorites in 2016 .
3216 is-s Whether he will do so is perhaps the biggest question of the race , in part because his performance to date has provided so many reasons to doubt he can do it.Nowhere are Mr. Walker 's advantages more obvious than in Iowa , where he holds a persistent lead in early polls .
3217 is-s ` The document is undergirded by two major presidential initiatives that have virtually no chance in Congress : large tax increases on multinational corporations and the rich , and a comprehensive immigration law that would lift the economy with millions of newly legalized , taxpaying workers.The proceeds of those initiatives would pay for free community college , more generous child care subsidies and education tax credits , paid sick leave , expanded unemployment benefits , and tax credits for two-earner middle-class couples , among other offerings.The White House even did away with the usual plain blue budget document cover for a gritty black-and-white photo of the Tappan Zee Bridge in New York , making vivid the president 's emphasis on ' a 21st-century infrastructure that creates jobs for thousands of construction workers and engineers , connects hard-working Americans to their jobs , and makes it easier for businesses to transport goods , ' as Mr. Obama wrote in the opening budget message.The push reflects the degree to which Mr. Obama emerged from last year 's midterm election losses determined to reinforce - rather than scale back - his belief that the government should play a fundamental role in spreading economic prosperity .
3218 is-s ` Everybody agrees we have to fix our infrastructure ; everybody agrees our tax system does n't work , ' said Jeffrey Zients , director of the president 's National Economic Council , who spoke of ` strategic alignment ' on tax changes and infrastructure as well as ` specific alignments ' on the earned income credit.For Republicans in Congress , however , the great strategic cause is balancing the budget .
3219 is-s The more we do those things , that 's the level of deterrence that 's necessary because it is highly unlikely that you are going to see Iran launch a direct attack , state to state , against any of our allies in the region .
3220 is-s The more we do those things , that 's the level of deterrence that 's necessary because it is highly unlikely that you are going to see Iran launch a direct attack , state to state , against any of our allies in the region .
3221 is-s My high school physics probably is n't equal to Ernie Moniz 's , but I do remember it 's not that easy to suddenly just hide potentially radioactive material that 's been developed .
3222 is-s My high school physics probably is n't equal to Ernie Moniz 's , but I do remember it 's not that easy to suddenly just hide potentially radioactive material that 's been developed .
3223 is-s In what he says is his effort to restore ` our Christian heritage , ' Mr. Lane 's American Renewal Project has already shown its influence in Iowa by helping to unseat three State Supreme Court justices who voted to allow same-sex marriage.But Mr. Lane 's ambitions are national - he focused on battleground states in 2014 and has built an email list of 100,000 pastors around the country.His goal now is to get 1,000 pastors to run for public office , and their potential support has drawn a virtual pilgrimage of conservative candidates eager to join the tours Mr. Lane organizes to Israel and to his ` Pastors and Pews ' events . '
3224 is-s His campaign and the Democratic National Committee are among the groups that say they 'll make use of Twitter 's new in-message fundraising.The DNC is interested in the new tool `` because we think it will help give people a chance to show their support without taking them away from one of the platforms where they 're getting their information , '' said Matt Compton , the group 's digital director.Twitter is working with Square Inc. , a financial services company , to collect the money and the information that the Federal Election Commission requires from political donors .
3225 is-s ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
3226 is-s ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
3227 is-s I would say Mr. Nuts is the most ludicrous and unqualified third-party candidate you could have , but he 's still polling at 7 , 8 , 9 percent , '' Mr. Jensen said .
3228 is-s It began issuing orders to phone companies to turn over their customers ' calling records.Its orders were based on a secret interpretation of a provision of the U.S.A. Patriot Act , known as Section 215 , which permits the F.B.I. to obtain business records deemed ` relevant ' to a national security investigation.The theory , accepted by the intelligence court but rejected in a recent appeals court ruling , is that everyone 's records are relevant to investigations hunting for terrorists because analyzing indirect links between callers can , in theory , reveal hidden relationships and sleeper cells.After praising the program as crucial to preventing terrorist attacks , intelligence agency officials now say that it has never thwarted one .
3229 is-s Cuomo is expected to headline a fund-raising event for Mr. Jeffries 's congressional campaign this fall , according to one Democrat who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the details of the event are still in flux.In an interview , Mr. Jeffries called the mayor 's clash with Mr. Cuomo a reckless mistake , given the broad power governors hold over city affairs .
3230 is-s He noted that Mr. de Blasio 's popularity has fallen among black New Yorkers , and said he believed it would be healthy for the city if Mr. de Blasio had a re-election fight.Though Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Stringer are most often discussed as potential opponents for the mayor in a Democratic primary , there is a longer list of possible challengers , including Ruben Diaz Jr. , the Bronx borough president ; Eric L. Adams , the Brooklyn borough president ; Letitia James , the public advocate ; and Melissa Mark-Viverito , the City Council speaker .
3231 is-s ` Democracy is always healthier whenever there 's a robust challenge and a battle of ideas , ' Mr. Jeffries said , adding , ` He should not get a free pass , but whether that means a Democratic primary challenge or a real race in the general election is something that 's above my pay grade .
3232 is-s ` Democracy is always healthier whenever there 's a robust challenge and a battle of ideas , ' Mr. Jeffries said , adding , ` He should not get a free pass , but whether that means a Democratic primary challenge or a real race in the general election is something that 's above my pay grade .
3233 is-s ` This is personal , and that 's the big difference between Spanish-language and mainstream media , because he 's talking about our parents , our friends , our kids and our babies , ' Mr. Ramos said in a telephone interview.Mr .
3234 is-s Ramos , who has been called the Walter Cronkite of Latino America for the tremendous influence he holds with Hispanic viewers , said that he could not recall Spanish-language news media covering a story as aggressively as it has Mr. Trump 's candidacy.And though cable news and the Sunday morning news shows have blanketed their political coverage with stories about many aspects of Mr. Trump 's improbable campaign , the focus of Spanish-language news programs has been almost exclusively on Mr. Trump 's controversial stance on immigration.About 58 percent of all mentions of Mr. Trump in mainstream news media - broadcast , cable , radio and online outlets - in the past month have focused on immigration , while on Spanish-language news programs , the proportion is almost 80 percent , according to an analysis by Two .42 .
3235 is-s ` It 's like in old cartoons where you would have a stick of dynamite and a long fuse , except now the fuse is much shorter - the flash to bang is much faster , ' John P. Carlin , the assistant attorney general for national security , said in an interview.But critics say the return to a faster-moving approach raises the possibility that , in the rush to make arrests , the government is jeopardizing criminal cases and missing opportunities to gather intelligence .
3236 is-s When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
3237 is-s When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
3238 is-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3239 is-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3240 is-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3241 is-s I think that no one here in South Carolina has any illusions that Lindsey Graham is on a fast track or even near the front part of the pack in that crowded group , ' said Robert Wislinski , a political strategist in the state.In previous election cycles , that might not have been the case for someone with Mr. Graham 's credentials .
3242 is-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
3243 is-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
3244 is-s `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
3245 is-s `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
3246 is-s `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
3247 is-s He , too , ultimately said he was sorry.While Clinton 's apology may ease the anxiety among some Democrats , it 's unlikely to end the political fallout.Republican National Committee spokeswoman Allison Moore suggested Tuesday that Clinton was only apologizing because `` she got caught and is dropping in the polls .
3248 is-s ` The guy who 's now got the biggest challenge because of this is Rand Paul , ' said Newt Gingrich , the former Republican House speaker .
3249 is-s `` There 's something homey about Luthadel -- even if it is a depressing , stark pit of a city .
3250 is-s `` The lass is a bit paranoid , but she 's not that bad .
3251 is-s He is a marvelous actor , but he feels very uncomfortable with people knowing the specifics of how he took Lord Renoux 's place .
3252 is-s The plan is good , but I have this terrible , haunting feeling that we 'll never succeed as long as he 's alive .
3253 is-s He 's making neither allies nor enemies at the moment -- he 's buying a large number of weapons and armor , but is probably just purchasing from a wide variety of houses and merchants , thereby ingratiating himself to them all .
3254 is-s He 's making neither allies nor enemies at the moment -- he 's buying a large number of weapons and armor , but is probably just purchasing from a wide variety of houses and merchants , thereby ingratiating himself to them all .
3255 is-s I know it 's hard to see -- things have been this way for so long -- but something very serious is wrong with the way skaa live .
3256 is-s `` Strength is a big part of fighting , but it 's not the only part .
3257 is-s You 've forgotten what that is , but it 's so nice ... .
3258 is-s `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
3259 is-s ___ 6:40 p.m.Billionaire Donald Trump is advocating for a progressive income tax , speaking out against a flat tax where everyone pays the same percentage no matter how much they earn.Trump says during the second Republican presidential debate that it 's not fair for someone who makes $ 50,000 a year to pay the same percentage in taxes as a millionaire.Trump also promises to release a tax reform plan in a couple weeks that hedge fund managers wo n't like , but that those in the middle class will.Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul disagrees , saying a flat 14.5 percent tax on everyone is the way to go .
3260 is-s ___ 6:05 p.m.New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is touting his anti-abortion rights record but stopping short of saying he 'd shut down the government to defund Planned Parenthood.Asked three times whether he would press to defund the women 's health organization even if it results in a government closure , Christie punted on the question.Christie says he 'd put it `` on the list '' of issues that Republicans should use to force a compromise from President Barack Obama , along with tax legislation.Christie has described the past government shutdown , which Republicans forced over the health care law , as a political misstep for the GOP .
3261 is-s ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
3262 is-s ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
3263 is-s ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
3264 is-s The official noted , however , that ` the pool is much bigger than it 's ever been but it 's not nearly as deep . ''
3265 is-s ___ 12:20 p.m.Ohio Gov. John Kasich is n't backing away from his support for the Common Core standards , which separates him from many of his GOP rivals.Kasich says he believes in higher standards , with local school boards developing curricula to meet those benchmarks.Kasich spoke to a group of education advocates at a forum kicking off a busy day of campaigning in the early-voting state of New Hampshire.While many of his fellow Republican governors have backed away from Common Core , Kasich says he 's not going to change his position `` because there 's four people in the front row yelling at me . ''
3266 is-s We want the world for them and a world that 's fully open to them.But we also want to win elections , and our coalition is what it is .
3267 is-s We want the world for them and a world that 's fully open to them.But we also want to win elections , and our coalition is what it is .
3268 is-s ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
3269 is-s And circumstances are anything but optimal for him : He faces a wide field of candidates , including several who are better financed and beloved by mainstream donors Jeb Bush , hold greater appeal to conservative voters who dominate the primary process Scott Walker , are agile public speakers with persuasive biographies Mr. Rubio , or are better liked by Republican voters all of the above.At his announcement , Mr. Christie sought political rebirth , as he has before , by relying on his powers as a narrator , and mythologizer , of his own story.Running for president is a new and bigger stage , though , and both Mr. Christie 's stagecraft and his oratory showed room for improvement .
3270 is-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3271 is-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3272 is-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3273 is-s Even now , his call to deport everyone who is in the U.S. illegally but let `` the good ones '' return quickly is considered a form of amnesty by some conservatives - not to mention impractical in the eyes of many.And the core of Cruz 's argument is that he 's a `` consistent conservative day in and day out . ''
3274 is-s Even now , his call to deport everyone who is in the U.S. illegally but let `` the good ones '' return quickly is considered a form of amnesty by some conservatives - not to mention impractical in the eyes of many.And the core of Cruz 's argument is that he 's a `` consistent conservative day in and day out . ''
3275 is-s Even now , his call to deport everyone who is in the U.S. illegally but let `` the good ones '' return quickly is considered a form of amnesty by some conservatives - not to mention impractical in the eyes of many.And the core of Cruz 's argument is that he 's a `` consistent conservative day in and day out . ''
3276 is-s I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3277 is-s I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3278 is-s One place to start is his argument that because he 's a billionaire who does n't depend on contributions from others , he 's somehow superior because he 's immune from political influence.The casino magnate refers to his competitors who accept political donations as `` puppets '' who are `` totally controlled by special interests , lobbyists and donors . ''
3279 is-s One place to start is his argument that because he 's a billionaire who does n't depend on contributions from others , he 's somehow superior because he 's immune from political influence.The casino magnate refers to his competitors who accept political donations as `` puppets '' who are `` totally controlled by special interests , lobbyists and donors . ''
3280 is-s It is a consistent part of his pitch to voters_that he 's `` very rich '' and therefore can not be induced to indulge a narrow special interest.The argument plays into the current political frustration with Washington , but it is as self-serving as it is dangerous to democracy .
3281 is-s It is a consistent part of his pitch to voters_that he 's `` very rich '' and therefore can not be induced to indulge a narrow special interest.The argument plays into the current political frustration with Washington , but it is as self-serving as it is dangerous to democracy .
3282 is-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
3283 is-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
3284 is-s `` And now the U.S. is struggling to counter gains by the Islamic State in Iraq.The lack of success in that operation so far indicates that the next commander in chief will face challenges there - and beyond - with a smaller Army.America 's enemies , current and potential , know that.Yes , overdue federal fiscal restraint must include making our armed forces as lean and efficient as practically feasible.But as history has repeatedly taught , if America 's military strength is too severely compromised , our nation - and the world - will likely pay a tragic price that transcends monetary measure.Online : http://www.postandcourier.com/article/20150824/PC1002/150829730/1022/big-defense-cuts-big-risks
3285 is-s For example , just read one recent paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.The two physicians in the debate , Ben Carson and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , argued that while science connecting vaccines and autism is lacking , spreading out the childhood vaccination schedule might be advisable.But that 's a position strongly opposed by the medical community - because there is no link between autism and vaccination , spacing vaccines will not reduce the risk of a child developing autism.But because many parents ask for such delayed schedules , doctors often accommodate such demands , putting children at risk of catching diseases before they are vaccinated or potentially failing to complete their recommended vaccines.Failing to vaccinate children has clear health risks .
3286 is-s For example , just read one recent paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.The two physicians in the debate , Ben Carson and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , argued that while science connecting vaccines and autism is lacking , spreading out the childhood vaccination schedule might be advisable.But that 's a position strongly opposed by the medical community - because there is no link between autism and vaccination , spacing vaccines will not reduce the risk of a child developing autism.But because many parents ask for such delayed schedules , doctors often accommodate such demands , putting children at risk of catching diseases before they are vaccinated or potentially failing to complete their recommended vaccines.Failing to vaccinate children has clear health risks .
3287 is-s The crisis in Greece has faded , for now at least.But on Thursday , when Mr. Draghi presides at a regularly scheduled meeting of the central bank 's Governing Council , he will need to address the welter of new and in some cases unexpected threats from around the globe , which could create pressure for yet more stimulus spending.A slowdown in the economy of China and other emerging markets has prompted wild swings in stock prices , although markets were relatively calm on Wednesday.The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates in the United States as early as this month , possibly causing borrowing costs to rise in the eurozone before growth is strong enough.Some economists are even warning again about the eurozone 's lapsing into deflation , a broad decline in prices that is considered poisonous to growth and employment.An influx of refugees into Europe from Syria and other conflict zones , while outside the purview of monetary policy , adds to the uncertainty .
3288 is-s The crisis in Greece has faded , for now at least.But on Thursday , when Mr. Draghi presides at a regularly scheduled meeting of the central bank 's Governing Council , he will need to address the welter of new and in some cases unexpected threats from around the globe , which could create pressure for yet more stimulus spending.A slowdown in the economy of China and other emerging markets has prompted wild swings in stock prices , although markets were relatively calm on Wednesday.The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates in the United States as early as this month , possibly causing borrowing costs to rise in the eurozone before growth is strong enough.Some economists are even warning again about the eurozone 's lapsing into deflation , a broad decline in prices that is considered poisonous to growth and employment.An influx of refugees into Europe from Syria and other conflict zones , while outside the purview of monetary policy , adds to the uncertainty .
3289 is-s Mr. Trump 's campaign slogan is ` Make America Great Again , ' which Reagan used in his 1980 race against Jimmy Carter.But Mr. Rubio has taken to criticizing Mr. Trump for using Reagan 's words to imply the country is not great . '
3290 is-s ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
3291 is-s I 'm not saying that everything is great in the U.S. economy , because it is n't .
3292 is-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
3293 is-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
3294 is-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
3295 is-s Indeed , Mr. Bush 's hapless attempt at a takedown suggests that his political team still does n't get it , and thinks that pointing out The Donald 's heresies will be enough to doom his campaign.But Mr. Trump , who is self-financing , did n't need to genuflect to the big money , and it turns out that the base does n't mind his heresies .
3296 is-s ` Certainly the G.O.P. and Trump are giving her good ammo , and it is funny , but she 's like a magician - ` Look over here , not at what 's really going on , '' ' said Richard Tafel , a Republican strategist , pointing to the inquiries related to her use of private email as secretary of state.Attacking the Republicans is not just an applause-line strategy , though .
3297 is-s Although there 's little evidence of a crime wave outside of a few major cities where homicides have increased , the political rationale seems obvious : The candidates are playing to the G.O.P. base , a normal part of the primary season.Another possibility , though , is that Republicans are also still searching for the best angle of attack against Hillary Rodham Clinton and the Democrats , who remain narrow betting market favorites in 2016 .
3298 is-s Whether he will do so is perhaps the biggest question of the race , in part because his performance to date has provided so many reasons to doubt he can do it.Nowhere are Mr. Walker 's advantages more obvious than in Iowa , where he holds a persistent lead in early polls .
3299 is-s ` The document is undergirded by two major presidential initiatives that have virtually no chance in Congress : large tax increases on multinational corporations and the rich , and a comprehensive immigration law that would lift the economy with millions of newly legalized , taxpaying workers.The proceeds of those initiatives would pay for free community college , more generous child care subsidies and education tax credits , paid sick leave , expanded unemployment benefits , and tax credits for two-earner middle-class couples , among other offerings.The White House even did away with the usual plain blue budget document cover for a gritty black-and-white photo of the Tappan Zee Bridge in New York , making vivid the president 's emphasis on ' a 21st-century infrastructure that creates jobs for thousands of construction workers and engineers , connects hard-working Americans to their jobs , and makes it easier for businesses to transport goods , ' as Mr. Obama wrote in the opening budget message.The push reflects the degree to which Mr. Obama emerged from last year 's midterm election losses determined to reinforce - rather than scale back - his belief that the government should play a fundamental role in spreading economic prosperity .
3300 is-s ` Everybody agrees we have to fix our infrastructure ; everybody agrees our tax system does n't work , ' said Jeffrey Zients , director of the president 's National Economic Council , who spoke of ` strategic alignment ' on tax changes and infrastructure as well as ` specific alignments ' on the earned income credit.For Republicans in Congress , however , the great strategic cause is balancing the budget .
3301 is-s The more we do those things , that 's the level of deterrence that 's necessary because it is highly unlikely that you are going to see Iran launch a direct attack , state to state , against any of our allies in the region .
3302 is-s The more we do those things , that 's the level of deterrence that 's necessary because it is highly unlikely that you are going to see Iran launch a direct attack , state to state , against any of our allies in the region .
3303 is-s My high school physics probably is n't equal to Ernie Moniz 's , but I do remember it 's not that easy to suddenly just hide potentially radioactive material that 's been developed .
3304 is-s My high school physics probably is n't equal to Ernie Moniz 's , but I do remember it 's not that easy to suddenly just hide potentially radioactive material that 's been developed .
3305 is-s In what he says is his effort to restore ` our Christian heritage , ' Mr. Lane 's American Renewal Project has already shown its influence in Iowa by helping to unseat three State Supreme Court justices who voted to allow same-sex marriage.But Mr. Lane 's ambitions are national - he focused on battleground states in 2014 and has built an email list of 100,000 pastors around the country.His goal now is to get 1,000 pastors to run for public office , and their potential support has drawn a virtual pilgrimage of conservative candidates eager to join the tours Mr. Lane organizes to Israel and to his ` Pastors and Pews ' events . '
3306 is-s His campaign and the Democratic National Committee are among the groups that say they 'll make use of Twitter 's new in-message fundraising.The DNC is interested in the new tool `` because we think it will help give people a chance to show their support without taking them away from one of the platforms where they 're getting their information , '' said Matt Compton , the group 's digital director.Twitter is working with Square Inc. , a financial services company , to collect the money and the information that the Federal Election Commission requires from political donors .
3307 is-s ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
3308 is-s ` The reality is it 's going to be a tough , even-steven kind of race , and there 's that moment when a lot of party establishment would start exactly this kind of rumble : ` Is there anybody else ? '' '
3309 is-s I would say Mr. Nuts is the most ludicrous and unqualified third-party candidate you could have , but he 's still polling at 7 , 8 , 9 percent , '' Mr. Jensen said .
3310 is-s It began issuing orders to phone companies to turn over their customers ' calling records.Its orders were based on a secret interpretation of a provision of the U.S.A. Patriot Act , known as Section 215 , which permits the F.B.I. to obtain business records deemed ` relevant ' to a national security investigation.The theory , accepted by the intelligence court but rejected in a recent appeals court ruling , is that everyone 's records are relevant to investigations hunting for terrorists because analyzing indirect links between callers can , in theory , reveal hidden relationships and sleeper cells.After praising the program as crucial to preventing terrorist attacks , intelligence agency officials now say that it has never thwarted one .
3311 is-s Cuomo is expected to headline a fund-raising event for Mr. Jeffries 's congressional campaign this fall , according to one Democrat who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the details of the event are still in flux.In an interview , Mr. Jeffries called the mayor 's clash with Mr. Cuomo a reckless mistake , given the broad power governors hold over city affairs .
3312 is-s He noted that Mr. de Blasio 's popularity has fallen among black New Yorkers , and said he believed it would be healthy for the city if Mr. de Blasio had a re-election fight.Though Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Stringer are most often discussed as potential opponents for the mayor in a Democratic primary , there is a longer list of possible challengers , including Ruben Diaz Jr. , the Bronx borough president ; Eric L. Adams , the Brooklyn borough president ; Letitia James , the public advocate ; and Melissa Mark-Viverito , the City Council speaker .
3313 is-s ` Democracy is always healthier whenever there 's a robust challenge and a battle of ideas , ' Mr. Jeffries said , adding , ` He should not get a free pass , but whether that means a Democratic primary challenge or a real race in the general election is something that 's above my pay grade .
3314 is-s ` Democracy is always healthier whenever there 's a robust challenge and a battle of ideas , ' Mr. Jeffries said , adding , ` He should not get a free pass , but whether that means a Democratic primary challenge or a real race in the general election is something that 's above my pay grade .
3315 is-s ` This is personal , and that 's the big difference between Spanish-language and mainstream media , because he 's talking about our parents , our friends , our kids and our babies , ' Mr. Ramos said in a telephone interview.Mr .
3316 is-s Ramos , who has been called the Walter Cronkite of Latino America for the tremendous influence he holds with Hispanic viewers , said that he could not recall Spanish-language news media covering a story as aggressively as it has Mr. Trump 's candidacy.And though cable news and the Sunday morning news shows have blanketed their political coverage with stories about many aspects of Mr. Trump 's improbable campaign , the focus of Spanish-language news programs has been almost exclusively on Mr. Trump 's controversial stance on immigration.About 58 percent of all mentions of Mr. Trump in mainstream news media - broadcast , cable , radio and online outlets - in the past month have focused on immigration , while on Spanish-language news programs , the proportion is almost 80 percent , according to an analysis by Two .42 .
3317 is-s ` It 's like in old cartoons where you would have a stick of dynamite and a long fuse , except now the fuse is much shorter - the flash to bang is much faster , ' John P. Carlin , the assistant attorney general for national security , said in an interview.But critics say the return to a faster-moving approach raises the possibility that , in the rush to make arrests , the government is jeopardizing criminal cases and missing opportunities to gather intelligence .
3318 is-s When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
3319 is-s When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
3320 is-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3321 is-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3322 is-s ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3323 is-s I think that no one here in South Carolina has any illusions that Lindsey Graham is on a fast track or even near the front part of the pack in that crowded group , ' said Robert Wislinski , a political strategist in the state.In previous election cycles , that might not have been the case for someone with Mr. Graham 's credentials .
3324 is-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
3325 is-s `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
3326 is-s `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
3327 is-s `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
3328 is-s `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
3329 is-s He , too , ultimately said he was sorry.While Clinton 's apology may ease the anxiety among some Democrats , it 's unlikely to end the political fallout.Republican National Committee spokeswoman Allison Moore suggested Tuesday that Clinton was only apologizing because `` she got caught and is dropping in the polls .
3330 is-s ` The guy who 's now got the biggest challenge because of this is Rand Paul , ' said Newt Gingrich , the former Republican House speaker .
3331 is-s `` There 's something homey about Luthadel -- even if it is a depressing , stark pit of a city .
3332 is-s `` The lass is a bit paranoid , but she 's not that bad .
3333 is-s He is a marvelous actor , but he feels very uncomfortable with people knowing the specifics of how he took Lord Renoux 's place .
3334 is-s The plan is good , but I have this terrible , haunting feeling that we 'll never succeed as long as he 's alive .
3335 is-s He 's making neither allies nor enemies at the moment -- he 's buying a large number of weapons and armor , but is probably just purchasing from a wide variety of houses and merchants , thereby ingratiating himself to them all .
3336 is-s He 's making neither allies nor enemies at the moment -- he 's buying a large number of weapons and armor , but is probably just purchasing from a wide variety of houses and merchants , thereby ingratiating himself to them all .
3337 is-s I know it 's hard to see -- things have been this way for so long -- but something very serious is wrong with the way skaa live .
3338 is-s `` Strength is a big part of fighting , but it 's not the only part .
3339 is-s You 've forgotten what that is , but it 's so nice ... .
3340 is-s `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
3341 is-s ___ 6:40 p.m.Billionaire Donald Trump is advocating for a progressive income tax , speaking out against a flat tax where everyone pays the same percentage no matter how much they earn.Trump says during the second Republican presidential debate that it 's not fair for someone who makes $ 50,000 a year to pay the same percentage in taxes as a millionaire.Trump also promises to release a tax reform plan in a couple weeks that hedge fund managers wo n't like , but that those in the middle class will.Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul disagrees , saying a flat 14.5 percent tax on everyone is the way to go .
3342 is-s ___ 6:05 p.m.New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is touting his anti-abortion rights record but stopping short of saying he 'd shut down the government to defund Planned Parenthood.Asked three times whether he would press to defund the women 's health organization even if it results in a government closure , Christie punted on the question.Christie says he 'd put it `` on the list '' of issues that Republicans should use to force a compromise from President Barack Obama , along with tax legislation.Christie has described the past government shutdown , which Republicans forced over the health care law , as a political misstep for the GOP .
3343 is-s ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
3344 is-s ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
3345 is-s ___ 5:35 p.m.Neurosurgeon Ben Carson is declining to single out his rivals for attack , saying he 's running because he concerned about the country 's divisiveness and fiscal state.He says , `` I do n't want to really get into describing who 's a politician and who 's not .
3346 is-s The official noted , however , that ` the pool is much bigger than it 's ever been but it 's not nearly as deep . ''
3347 is-s ___ 12:20 p.m.Ohio Gov. John Kasich is n't backing away from his support for the Common Core standards , which separates him from many of his GOP rivals.Kasich says he believes in higher standards , with local school boards developing curricula to meet those benchmarks.Kasich spoke to a group of education advocates at a forum kicking off a busy day of campaigning in the early-voting state of New Hampshire.While many of his fellow Republican governors have backed away from Common Core , Kasich says he 's not going to change his position `` because there 's four people in the front row yelling at me . ''
3348 is-s We want the world for them and a world that 's fully open to them.But we also want to win elections , and our coalition is what it is .
3349 is-s We want the world for them and a world that 's fully open to them.But we also want to win elections , and our coalition is what it is .
3350 is-s ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
3351 is-s And circumstances are anything but optimal for him : He faces a wide field of candidates , including several who are better financed and beloved by mainstream donors Jeb Bush , hold greater appeal to conservative voters who dominate the primary process Scott Walker , are agile public speakers with persuasive biographies Mr. Rubio , or are better liked by Republican voters all of the above.At his announcement , Mr. Christie sought political rebirth , as he has before , by relying on his powers as a narrator , and mythologizer , of his own story.Running for president is a new and bigger stage , though , and both Mr. Christie 's stagecraft and his oratory showed room for improvement .
3352 is-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3353 is-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3354 is-s The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3355 is-s Even now , his call to deport everyone who is in the U.S. illegally but let `` the good ones '' return quickly is considered a form of amnesty by some conservatives - not to mention impractical in the eyes of many.And the core of Cruz 's argument is that he 's a `` consistent conservative day in and day out . ''
3356 is-s Even now , his call to deport everyone who is in the U.S. illegally but let `` the good ones '' return quickly is considered a form of amnesty by some conservatives - not to mention impractical in the eyes of many.And the core of Cruz 's argument is that he 's a `` consistent conservative day in and day out . ''
3357 is-s Even now , his call to deport everyone who is in the U.S. illegally but let `` the good ones '' return quickly is considered a form of amnesty by some conservatives - not to mention impractical in the eyes of many.And the core of Cruz 's argument is that he 's a `` consistent conservative day in and day out . ''
3358 is-s I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3359 is-s I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3360 is-s One place to start is his argument that because he 's a billionaire who does n't depend on contributions from others , he 's somehow superior because he 's immune from political influence.The casino magnate refers to his competitors who accept political donations as `` puppets '' who are `` totally controlled by special interests , lobbyists and donors . ''
3361 is-s One place to start is his argument that because he 's a billionaire who does n't depend on contributions from others , he 's somehow superior because he 's immune from political influence.The casino magnate refers to his competitors who accept political donations as `` puppets '' who are `` totally controlled by special interests , lobbyists and donors . ''
3362 is-s It is a consistent part of his pitch to voters_that he 's `` very rich '' and therefore can not be induced to indulge a narrow special interest.The argument plays into the current political frustration with Washington , but it is as self-serving as it is dangerous to democracy .
3363 is-s It is a consistent part of his pitch to voters_that he 's `` very rich '' and therefore can not be induced to indulge a narrow special interest.The argument plays into the current political frustration with Washington , but it is as self-serving as it is dangerous to democracy .
3364 is-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
3365 is-s To say the least , he 's never been shy about pursuing his interests.In business that 's fine and plastering his name everywhere has built a well-known brand and accumulated a fortune that may even be as large as he says it is .
3366 is-s `` And now the U.S. is struggling to counter gains by the Islamic State in Iraq.The lack of success in that operation so far indicates that the next commander in chief will face challenges there - and beyond - with a smaller Army.America 's enemies , current and potential , know that.Yes , overdue federal fiscal restraint must include making our armed forces as lean and efficient as practically feasible.But as history has repeatedly taught , if America 's military strength is too severely compromised , our nation - and the world - will likely pay a tragic price that transcends monetary measure.Online : http://www.postandcourier.com/article/20150824/PC1002/150829730/1022/big-defense-cuts-big-risks
3367 is-s For example , just read one recent paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.The two physicians in the debate , Ben Carson and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , argued that while science connecting vaccines and autism is lacking , spreading out the childhood vaccination schedule might be advisable.But that 's a position strongly opposed by the medical community - because there is no link between autism and vaccination , spacing vaccines will not reduce the risk of a child developing autism.But because many parents ask for such delayed schedules , doctors often accommodate such demands , putting children at risk of catching diseases before they are vaccinated or potentially failing to complete their recommended vaccines.Failing to vaccinate children has clear health risks .
3368 is-s For example , just read one recent paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.The two physicians in the debate , Ben Carson and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , argued that while science connecting vaccines and autism is lacking , spreading out the childhood vaccination schedule might be advisable.But that 's a position strongly opposed by the medical community - because there is no link between autism and vaccination , spacing vaccines will not reduce the risk of a child developing autism.But because many parents ask for such delayed schedules , doctors often accommodate such demands , putting children at risk of catching diseases before they are vaccinated or potentially failing to complete their recommended vaccines.Failing to vaccinate children has clear health risks .
3369 is-s The crisis in Greece has faded , for now at least.But on Thursday , when Mr. Draghi presides at a regularly scheduled meeting of the central bank 's Governing Council , he will need to address the welter of new and in some cases unexpected threats from around the globe , which could create pressure for yet more stimulus spending.A slowdown in the economy of China and other emerging markets has prompted wild swings in stock prices , although markets were relatively calm on Wednesday.The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates in the United States as early as this month , possibly causing borrowing costs to rise in the eurozone before growth is strong enough.Some economists are even warning again about the eurozone 's lapsing into deflation , a broad decline in prices that is considered poisonous to growth and employment.An influx of refugees into Europe from Syria and other conflict zones , while outside the purview of monetary policy , adds to the uncertainty .
3370 is-s The crisis in Greece has faded , for now at least.But on Thursday , when Mr. Draghi presides at a regularly scheduled meeting of the central bank 's Governing Council , he will need to address the welter of new and in some cases unexpected threats from around the globe , which could create pressure for yet more stimulus spending.A slowdown in the economy of China and other emerging markets has prompted wild swings in stock prices , although markets were relatively calm on Wednesday.The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates in the United States as early as this month , possibly causing borrowing costs to rise in the eurozone before growth is strong enough.Some economists are even warning again about the eurozone 's lapsing into deflation , a broad decline in prices that is considered poisonous to growth and employment.An influx of refugees into Europe from Syria and other conflict zones , while outside the purview of monetary policy , adds to the uncertainty .
3371 is-s Mr. Trump 's campaign slogan is ` Make America Great Again , ' which Reagan used in his 1980 race against Jimmy Carter.But Mr. Rubio has taken to criticizing Mr. Trump for using Reagan 's words to imply the country is not great . '
3372 is-s ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
3373 is-s I 'm not saying that everything is great in the U.S. economy , because it is n't .
3374 is-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
3375 is-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
3376 is-s Bush , in particular , may pose as a reasonable , thoughtful type - credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk - but his actual economic platform , which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America 's growth rate , is pure supply-side voodoo.And here 's what 's interesting : all indications are that Mr. Bush 's attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat , because the Republican base does n't actually share the Republican establishment 's economic delusions.The thing is , we did n't really know that until Mr. Trump came along .
3377 is-s Indeed , Mr. Bush 's hapless attempt at a takedown suggests that his political team still does n't get it , and thinks that pointing out The Donald 's heresies will be enough to doom his campaign.But Mr. Trump , who is self-financing , did n't need to genuflect to the big money , and it turns out that the base does n't mind his heresies .
3378 is-said I do n't have time to talk about somebody else , ' Mr. Kasich said , adding that he was fully occupied , like Mr. Carson , with introducing himself to voters.Responding to a question from a voter about how he had similarly deflected the topic of Mr. Trump in a CNN interview , Mr. Kasich even avoided mentioning the unlikely Republican poll-leader by name.For a while , that is.He eventually gave in to temptation , after uncorking a metaphor about how his much-praised debate performance was akin to being an astronaut launched in a rocket ship .
3379 is-said ` Certainly the G.O.P. and Trump are giving her good ammo , and it is funny , but she 's like a magician - ` Look over here , not at what 's really going on , '' ' said Richard Tafel , a Republican strategist , pointing to the inquiries related to her use of private email as secretary of state.Attacking the Republicans is not just an applause-line strategy , though .
3380 is-said ` Your family is calling you and telling you they have run out of food , but you can not send them money , ' Lieutenant Javed said , describing the plight of soldiers who are often the sole breadwinners for large families .
3381 is-said He said he would not accept spending bills that maintained tough budget caps he agreed to in 2011 , nor would he loosen budget controls on military spending without relaxing them for domestic programs.But hidden in some of his most ambitious proposals to diminish the wealth gap and remake the corporate tax code are areas of potential compromise that nod to Republican ideas : an expansion of the earned income credit for the working poor , a revitalized Pentagon budget , and a surge in spending on roads , bridges , airports and other infrastructure , financed by a new tax rate on foreign corporate profits.Absent from the plan is any pretense of remaking the main drivers of the long-term debt - Social Security and Medicare - a quest that has long eluded both parties .
3382 is-said ` Everybody agrees we have to fix our infrastructure ; everybody agrees our tax system does n't work , ' said Jeffrey Zients , director of the president 's National Economic Council , who spoke of ` strategic alignment ' on tax changes and infrastructure as well as ` specific alignments ' on the earned income credit.For Republicans in Congress , however , the great strategic cause is balancing the budget .
3383 is-said A Google Consumer Survey sponsored by Echelon Insights gave voters the opportunity to describe why they supported Mr. Trump , and over all , half of his supporters said they liked him because of his authenticity , compared with 14 percent who mentioned a policy.There is no guarantee , of course , that Mr. Trump can pull this off indefinitely .
3384 is-said ` Asked if he believed that , given the depth of Iran 's civil society , which in 2009 launched a ` green revolution ' challenging clerical rule , the forces there for greater integration with the world would be empowered by this deal , the president said : ` With respect to Iran , it is a great civilization , but it also has an authoritarian theocracy in charge that is anti-American , anti-Israeli , anti-Semitic , sponsors terrorism , and there are a whole host of real profound differences that we have with them , ' said the president .
3385 is-said ` Asked if he believed that , given the depth of Iran 's civil society , which in 2009 launched a ` green revolution ' challenging clerical rule , the forces there for greater integration with the world would be empowered by this deal , the president said : ` With respect to Iran , it is a great civilization , but it also has an authoritarian theocracy in charge that is anti-American , anti-Israeli , anti-Semitic , sponsors terrorism , and there are a whole host of real profound differences that we have with them , ' said the president .
3386 is-said ` Well , I have n't learned yet to trust the Iranian leadership , ' said Mr. Obama , ` although I think that what John Kerry learned in his interactions with Foreign Minister Zarif - and that then traces back to President Rouhani - is that when you nail down an agreement , they do seem to follow it to the letter , perhaps thinking there may be a loophole here or there , which is why you have to button this stuff down .
3387 is-said ` Well , I have n't learned yet to trust the Iranian leadership , ' said Mr. Obama , ` although I think that what John Kerry learned in his interactions with Foreign Minister Zarif - and that then traces back to President Rouhani - is that when you nail down an agreement , they do seem to follow it to the letter , perhaps thinking there may be a loophole here or there , which is why you have to button this stuff down .
3388 is-said His campaign and the Democratic National Committee are among the groups that say they 'll make use of Twitter 's new in-message fundraising.The DNC is interested in the new tool `` because we think it will help give people a chance to show their support without taking them away from one of the platforms where they 're getting their information , '' said Matt Compton , the group 's digital director.Twitter is working with Square Inc. , a financial services company , to collect the money and the information that the Federal Election Commission requires from political donors .
3389 is-said ` Mr. O'Malley has declined to criticize Mrs. Clinton over her email use , but he has suggested that it is a legitimate issue.But he said the party was making a ` horrible mistake ' if the contest was ` defined by the latest questions of the day ' that ` Secretary Clinton and her lawyers can only answer . '
3390 is-said ` Your wallet is the best ballot , ' said Barrett Silver , who signed the parent petition urging the prom to be relocated.Officials at Horace Greeley said that they were open to moving the prom , which takes place next spring , but that the decision would ultimately be left to the students , who finance and organize the event.The business losses from moving the 300-person prom is unlikely to sting Mr. Trump , who has absorbed millions of dollars in severed corporate ventures since he started his presidential campaign in June .
3391 is-said ` Your wallet is the best ballot , ' said Barrett Silver , who signed the parent petition urging the prom to be relocated.Officials at Horace Greeley said that they were open to moving the prom , which takes place next spring , but that the decision would ultimately be left to the students , who finance and organize the event.The business losses from moving the 300-person prom is unlikely to sting Mr. Trump , who has absorbed millions of dollars in severed corporate ventures since he started his presidential campaign in June .
3392 is-said I would say Mr. Nuts is the most ludicrous and unqualified third-party candidate you could have , but he 's still polling at 7 , 8 , 9 percent , '' Mr. Jensen said .
3393 is-said `` What is important for the IOC is that we want to send the athletes only to cities where they are welcome , '' Bach said , adding that the IOC will carry out its own confidential polling in all the bid cities.Germany , which last held the Summer Olympics in Munich in 1972 , is the leading contender to host the European soccer championship in 2024 , but Bach - a German - said there was no reason the country could n't hold both events .
3394 is-said `` What is important for the IOC is that we want to send the athletes only to cities where they are welcome , '' Bach said , adding that the IOC will carry out its own confidential polling in all the bid cities.Germany , which last held the Summer Olympics in Munich in 1972 , is the leading contender to host the European soccer championship in 2024 , but Bach - a German - said there was no reason the country could n't hold both events .
3395 is-said `` What is important for the IOC is that we want to send the athletes only to cities where they are welcome , '' Bach said , adding that the IOC will carry out its own confidential polling in all the bid cities.Germany , which last held the Summer Olympics in Munich in 1972 , is the leading contender to host the European soccer championship in 2024 , but Bach - a German - said there was no reason the country could n't hold both events .
3396 is-said He noted that Mr. de Blasio 's popularity has fallen among black New Yorkers , and said he believed it would be healthy for the city if Mr. de Blasio had a re-election fight.Though Mr. Jeffries and Mr. Stringer are most often discussed as potential opponents for the mayor in a Democratic primary , there is a longer list of possible challengers , including Ruben Diaz Jr. , the Bronx borough president ; Eric L. Adams , the Brooklyn borough president ; Letitia James , the public advocate ; and Melissa Mark-Viverito , the City Council speaker .
3397 is-said ` Democracy is always healthier whenever there 's a robust challenge and a battle of ideas , ' Mr. Jeffries said , adding , ` He should not get a free pass , but whether that means a Democratic primary challenge or a real race in the general election is something that 's above my pay grade .
3398 is-said And he said that his party had drifted rightward enough that someone like Ronald Reagan would have difficulty finding a receptive home in it.That assessment suggested one reason Bush is now deemed a centrist : The poles have moved.But much of his record in Florida is that of the ` headbanging conservative ' he claimed to be during a first , unsuccessful campaign for governor in 1994 .
3399 is-said ` This is personal , and that 's the big difference between Spanish-language and mainstream media , because he 's talking about our parents , our friends , our kids and our babies , ' Mr. Ramos said in a telephone interview.Mr .
3400 is-said Ramos , who has been called the Walter Cronkite of Latino America for the tremendous influence he holds with Hispanic viewers , said that he could not recall Spanish-language news media covering a story as aggressively as it has Mr. Trump 's candidacy.And though cable news and the Sunday morning news shows have blanketed their political coverage with stories about many aspects of Mr. Trump 's improbable campaign , the focus of Spanish-language news programs has been almost exclusively on Mr. Trump 's controversial stance on immigration.About 58 percent of all mentions of Mr. Trump in mainstream news media - broadcast , cable , radio and online outlets - in the past month have focused on immigration , while on Spanish-language news programs , the proportion is almost 80 percent , according to an analysis by Two .42 .
3401 is-said In one , an anchor said that Mr. Trump had nothing in his head but air , and in another , Armando Guzmán , a Washington correspondent , accused Mr. Trump of lying : ` As in everything else , Trump is not telling the truth , ' Mr. Guzmán said.The last one-on-one interview Mr. Trump gave to a Spanish-language network was with Mr. Díaz-Balart on Telemundo , shortly after Mr. Trump announced his candidacy .
3402 is-said ` We are going to take the lessons of the heartland , ' he said here Tuesday , ` and straighten out Washington , D.C. ` But first , voters must figure out who Mr. Kasich is .
3403 is-said ` It 's like in old cartoons where you would have a stick of dynamite and a long fuse , except now the fuse is much shorter - the flash to bang is much faster , ' John P. Carlin , the assistant attorney general for national security , said in an interview.But critics say the return to a faster-moving approach raises the possibility that , in the rush to make arrests , the government is jeopardizing criminal cases and missing opportunities to gather intelligence .
3404 is-said ` That 's an example of how this is so different : There could be a plan to do something in the future , but the kind of folks these are , they 're unpredictable , unreliable , ' Mr. Comey said.In response to calls on Twitter by the Islamic State for Americans to stage attacks on the Fourth of July , F.B.I. officials in Washington told agents across the country in the weeks leading up to the holiday to arrest suspects under surveillance if they believed they had enough evidence to bring charges .
3405 is-said ` We have to run an extremely well-run institution that properly assesses risk , that is willing to work with other organizations but not take chances that put the bank at risk , ' Mr. Mestrich said .
3406 is-said ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3407 is-said ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3408 is-said I think that no one here in South Carolina has any illusions that Lindsey Graham is on a fast track or even near the front part of the pack in that crowded group , ' said Robert Wislinski , a political strategist in the state.In previous election cycles , that might not have been the case for someone with Mr. Graham 's credentials .
3409 is-said `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
3410 is-said `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
3411 is-said Wagner said that she had never heard of Jeb Bush but that his plans to meet with conservatives in Berlin matched her perception of President George W. Bush as ` just a politician who is interested in money , his own private interests and those of a certain political class . ''
3412 is-said ` Reform conservatism is based on a recognition that the American economy has not served middle-income people well , not just since the crisis of 2008 but at least since the year 2000 , ' said David Frum , the prominent Canadian-American conservative journalist and former speechwriter for George W. Bush who serves as a senior editor at The Atlantic.Though the reform conservatives dissent from conservative tax orthodoxy , they are not necessarily moderates .
3413 is-said ` Trump served notice that the donors ' platform is n't even acceptable inside the party , ' Mr. Frum said.Of course , there are reasons the reformocons have not lined up to support Mr. Trump .
3414 is-said ` If Trump is n't offering workable solutions but he is identifying problems that others have ignored , the hope is some more policy-focused , more governance-focused competitor will make use of the opportunity that Trump has publicized , ' Mr. Frum said.In an analogy that wo n't make anyone very comfortable , he said Mr. Trump could be useful in the same way George Wallace was in 1968 : ` Wallace talked about a lot of issues , many of them pretty dismaying , but he also seized on the crime issue .
3415 is-said ` If Trump is n't offering workable solutions but he is identifying problems that others have ignored , the hope is some more policy-focused , more governance-focused competitor will make use of the opportunity that Trump has publicized , ' Mr. Frum said.In an analogy that wo n't make anyone very comfortable , he said Mr. Trump could be useful in the same way George Wallace was in 1968 : ` Wallace talked about a lot of issues , many of them pretty dismaying , but he also seized on the crime issue .
3416 is-said The dollar amount is expected to be disclosed soon.But some potential donors have said in recent weeks that Mr. Walker 's busy schedule was not an issue for them ; rather , they were taking a wait-and-see approach on Mr. Walker.Advisers to Mr. Walker emphasized that policy briefings were not the only important way that he had educated himself on the issues .
3417 is-said `` Left unmentioned is how Reagan sold arms to Iranians as part of a plan to aid rebel forces in Nicaragua , and Reagan 's famous summits with Gorbachev.Russo , even as he , too , criticizes Obama , said Reagan 's philosophy gets twisted .
3418 is-said He , too , ultimately said he was sorry.While Clinton 's apology may ease the anxiety among some Democrats , it 's unlikely to end the political fallout.Republican National Committee spokeswoman Allison Moore suggested Tuesday that Clinton was only apologizing because `` she got caught and is dropping in the polls .
3419 is-said Graham has formed a similar group , Security Through Strength , and has begun traveling to early nominating states to discuss what he calls ` the threat of radical Islam ' as he ponders a presidential run.Mike Rogers , the former Michigan representative and the former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee , is not considering a presidential bid , but he is trying to influence the 2016 race by creating an organization called Americans for Peace Prosperity and Security , which he said would support candidates ` who understand the importance of American engagement . '
3420 is-said `` Ah , '' Kelsier said , `` but being an annoyance is something that I am very good at .
3421 is-said `` People often say that , '' Sazed said , `` but I find that it is rarely true .
3422 is-said `` I 've been meaning to ask this for a while , '' she said , glancing out the window , though all she could see is mist .
3423 is-said `` He is sitting with you because he knows that it will annoy his family , '' Sazed said .
3424 is-said `` Yes , '' Elend said , `` but at least she probably is n't a spy for another house .
3425 is-said Bush said he supports defending the rights of religious people to refuse to endorse gay marriage , but he said someone else in Davis ' office should sign the certificates since the Supreme Court ruling is the law of the land .
3426 is-said ` We 've been through other periods of high threat , but this time is different because of the proven reach of ISIS into Europe and the U.S. , ' said Matthew G. Olsen , a former director of the National Counterterrorism Center .
3427 is-said ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
3428 is-said I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3429 is-said ` Hillary Clinton stopped making calls to her own super PAC donors long enough to call for an end to super PACs , ' said Jeff Bechdel , a spokesman for America Rising , a conservative super PAC.But Democrats say forgoing super PAC money would be tantamount to handing the election to Republicans , erasing any chance for reform.To that end , Mrs. Clinton frequently tells donors that the only way to enact her plan and reform the system is to elect a Democrat .
3430 is-said During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
3431 is-said His enthusiasm is growing ' Mr. Sugarman said , because ` people are responsive to what he is saying in a larger venue than has ever been the case before , and probably because they agree with him . '
3432 is-said The law also included a stringent voter ID requirement that has since been softened and was not included in the current trial.The ` cumulative impact ' of all these changes at once imposed a burden on minority voters that is illegal under the Voting Rights Act and also the 14th and 15th Amendments , said Daniel T. Donovan , a lawyer with Kirkland and Ellis who was arguing on behalf of the North Carolina N.A.A.C.P.But an expert testifying for the state , Trey Hood , a political scientist at the University of Georgia , said he could find no evidence that the altered rules hampered black voting in 2014 .
3433 is-saying `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
3434 is-saying ___ 6:40 p.m.Billionaire Donald Trump is advocating for a progressive income tax , speaking out against a flat tax where everyone pays the same percentage no matter how much they earn.Trump says during the second Republican presidential debate that it 's not fair for someone who makes $ 50,000 a year to pay the same percentage in taxes as a millionaire.Trump also promises to release a tax reform plan in a couple weeks that hedge fund managers wo n't like , but that those in the middle class will.Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul disagrees , saying a flat 14.5 percent tax on everyone is the way to go .
3435 is-saying ___ 6:05 p.m.New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is touting his anti-abortion rights record but stopping short of saying he 'd shut down the government to defund Planned Parenthood.Asked three times whether he would press to defund the women 's health organization even if it results in a government closure , Christie punted on the question.Christie says he 'd put it `` on the list '' of issues that Republicans should use to force a compromise from President Barack Obama , along with tax legislation.Christie has described the past government shutdown , which Republicans forced over the health care law , as a political misstep for the GOP .
3436 is-saying `` He also had harsh words for teachers unions , saying , `` If I were , not president , but if I were king in America , I would abolish all teachers ' lounges where they sit together and worry about ` woe is us . ' ''
3437 is-saying ` Mr. Walker 's political message , as well as his national appeal as a Midwestern governor with an Everyman persona , will be tested right away as he campaigns this week in Nevada , South Carolina and New Hampshire , states that hold early and influential contests.While Mr. Walker is well positioned to compete in the first-in-the-nation caucuses in Iowa , which he considers a must-win state , he has lost momentum in those other three states because of long absences , relatively modest political operations or increasingly hard-line positions that appear intended for Iowa conservatives.His comments are eyebrow-raising at times : On Monday night , he criticized the minimum wage as among the ` lame ideas ' from the ` left , ' saying on Fox News Channel 's ` Hannity ' that the country should focus on improving worker skills instead .
3438 is-saying His enthusiasm is growing ' Mr. Sugarman said , because ` people are responsive to what he is saying in a larger venue than has ever been the case before , and probably because they agree with him . '
3439 is-saying I 'm not saying that everything is great in the U.S. economy , because it is n't .
3440 is-see The so-called moderate in Iran is not going to be suddenly somebody who we feel reflects universal issues like human rights , but there are better or worse approaches that Iran can take relative to our interests and the interests of our allies , and we should see where we can encourage that better approach .
3441 is-see The dollar amount is expected to be disclosed soon.But some potential donors have said in recent weeks that Mr. Walker 's busy schedule was not an issue for them ; rather , they were taking a wait-and-see approach on Mr. Walker.Advisers to Mr. Walker emphasized that policy briefings were not the only important way that he had educated himself on the issues .
3442 is-see `` What 's clear is that today 's voters endorse Reagan 's legacy , however they see it.In a 2014 Quinnipiac University poll , 35 percent of voters nationally chose Reagan as the best president the United States has had since World War II - well ahead of Bill Clinton 18 percent and John Kennedy 15 percent.Among Republicans , Reagan was the runaway favorite , with 66 percent picking him as the top president in recent history.That 's perhaps why opponents of the GOP White House hopefuls are also sometimes eager to stand the candidates up next to Reagan.In an online ad posted Wednesday , the super PAC backing Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton 's campaign spliced some of the GOP contenders ' comments into Reagan 's famous `` Morning in America '' TV ad from his 1984 campaign.After the narrator from the original ad says , `` It 's morning again in America , '' the ad cuts to Trump at a podium saying , `` Sadly , the American dream is dead . ''
3443 is-see Ten thousand men is a great number , but I 've still to see an adequate explanation of how you 're going to raise them .
3444 is-see `` Master Kelsier is reticent about the Pits , but I sense that the scars he bears from that horrid place go much deeper than the ones you see on his arms .
3445 is-see I know it 's hard to see -- things have been this way for so long -- but something very serious is wrong with the way skaa live .
3446 is-see But now ... well , I hope I live to see you dead , because this house is in for dire times if you ever take control . ''
3447 is-see `` I see the importance of sending Hammond to train the soldiers -- but honestly , what is the reason for forcing Dockson and myself to go and visit them ? ''
3448 is-show His campaign and the Democratic National Committee are among the groups that say they 'll make use of Twitter 's new in-message fundraising.The DNC is interested in the new tool `` because we think it will help give people a chance to show their support without taking them away from one of the platforms where they 're getting their information , '' said Matt Compton , the group 's digital director.Twitter is working with Square Inc. , a financial services company , to collect the money and the information that the Federal Election Commission requires from political donors .
3449 is-show Bronze is one of the less useful metals , especially for a full Mistborn , but Marsh claims he can show you a few tricks .
3450 is-stepped `` The hour is late , but ... '' Kelsier stepped into the building .
3451 is-stretches ` And yes , while that 's partly a legacy of discrimination that stretches back to the start of our nation , it is also because of discrimination that is still ongoing .
3452 is-struggled Marco Rubio , perhaps the only candidate who appeals more broadly throughout the party than Mr. Walker , does not have a natural base of support in the party and has struggled to break through.But a straightforward path to victory is no guarantee of victory .
3453 is-struggled The G.O.P. has struggled to coalesce behind anything like a consensus candidate because the party is so fractured and the field is so big.The party has huge incentives to unify against Trump .
3454 is-struggled The G.O.P. has struggled to coalesce behind anything like a consensus candidate because the party is so fractured and the field is so big.The party has huge incentives to unify against Trump .
3455 is-struggled The fact that so many are threatened by him is a sign of how the Republican Party ca n't deal with some deviations from conventional thought , '' she said.Those attacks have dwindled of late , no doubt because Paul has struggled to raise money , mount a disciplined campaign and break through the primal roar of the Trump movement .
3456 is-succeed The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to publicly discuss national security matters.Some F.B.I. investigators privately disagree with the intense focus , which draws resources away from other investigations and sometimes has led to frustration inside the bureau and the Justice Department.After years of watching for large-scale plots , investigators are now trying to identify and prevent shootings and stabbings - violence on a scale that is common in major American cities but has never been a priority for the F.B.I. Preventing Islamic State-inspired violence is a priority , and current and former investigators say they feel tremendous pressure to succeed .
3457 is-succeed The plan is good , but I have this terrible , haunting feeling that we 'll never succeed as long as he 's alive .
3458 is-sum One exception is a 5.3 percent gain in median wages among Hispanics in 2014 , though that is within the statistical margin of error and so may not be meaningful.If you were to sum up the latest census numbers on incomes in the United States in 2014 , it would be with these three words : ` not statistically different . '
3459 is-surviving For my men , this is n't just about riches -- it is n't even about surviving .
3460 is-surviving For my men , this is n't just about riches -- it is n't even about surviving .
3461 is-talking It is because I do n't think Trump can run that strongly , especially now that he is talking about tax increases .
3462 is-talking A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
3463 is-talking A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
3464 is-talking ` This is personal , and that 's the big difference between Spanish-language and mainstream media , because he 's talking about our parents , our friends , our kids and our babies , ' Mr. Ramos said in a telephone interview.Mr .
3465 is-talking It is because I do n't think Trump can run that strongly , especially now that he is talking about tax increases .
3466 is-talking A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
3467 is-talking A fast-talking and born-again veteran of conservative politics with experience in Washington , Texas and California , Mr. Lane , 60 , travels the country trying to persuade evangelical clergy members to become politically active.His hope is that the politicized pastors will help mobilize congregations that have been disheartened by the repeated failure of socially conservative candidates , and by a party that has softened its opposition to same-sex marriage.It is an organizing approach far different from those in the days when larger-than-life leaders like the Moral Majority founder , Jerry Falwell , who died in 2007 , or Pat Robertson , now 84 , could activate evangelical voters simply by anointing a candidate.But close observers of evangelicals and their political involvement say Mr. Lane is emblematic of a new generation of evangelical leaders who draw local support or exert influence through niche issues or their own networks.Unlike political operatives such as Ralph Reed , the former executive director of the Christian Coalition who helped elect George W. Bush before becoming ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal , Mr. Lane does not have an extensive organization.What Mr. Lane , a former public relations man , does have going for him is a decentralized landscape in which a determined believer with an extensive network of ground-level evangelical leaders and a limitless capacity for talking on the phone can exert influence on Republican presidential candidates eager to reach evangelical voters .
3468 is-talking ` This is personal , and that 's the big difference between Spanish-language and mainstream media , because he 's talking about our parents , our friends , our kids and our babies , ' Mr. Ramos said in a telephone interview.Mr .
3469 is-think It is because I do n't think Trump can run that strongly , especially now that he is talking about tax increases .
3470 is-think His campaign and the Democratic National Committee are among the groups that say they 'll make use of Twitter 's new in-message fundraising.The DNC is interested in the new tool `` because we think it will help give people a chance to show their support without taking them away from one of the platforms where they 're getting their information , '' said Matt Compton , the group 's digital director.Twitter is working with Square Inc. , a financial services company , to collect the money and the information that the Federal Election Commission requires from political donors .
3471 is-think `` The city of Holstep is about an hour more to the north , but I think we 've found what we came for .
3472 is-think `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
3473 is-think It is not because they think Democrats are better stewards of the economy .
3474 is-think Confusion among European leaders about how to deal with the crisis raises questions about the political unity that is essential to the survival of the eurozone.These factors could undermine the positive effects of the bond-buying stimulus program , known as quantitative easing , that the European Central Bank began in March as a way to pump money into the eurozone economy and force down market interest rates.As a result , some analysts , so far apparently a minority , expect Mr. Draghi to send a strong signal on Thursday that the central bank 's Governing Council is ready to step up its bond purchases and continue them longer than currently planned.But any talk of more stimulus would reawaken tensions on the Governing Council between those who think the central bank has already done too much and those who favor aggressive , pre-emptive action .
3475 is-think Confusion among European leaders about how to deal with the crisis raises questions about the political unity that is essential to the survival of the eurozone.These factors could undermine the positive effects of the bond-buying stimulus program , known as quantitative easing , that the European Central Bank began in March as a way to pump money into the eurozone economy and force down market interest rates.As a result , some analysts , so far apparently a minority , expect Mr. Draghi to send a strong signal on Thursday that the central bank 's Governing Council is ready to step up its bond purchases and continue them longer than currently planned.But any talk of more stimulus would reawaken tensions on the Governing Council between those who think the central bank has already done too much and those who favor aggressive , pre-emptive action .
3476 is-thought I thought that Mistress Vin had recovered some ancient religious text -- but it is of a far more mundane nature . ''
3477 is-thought `` Once , maybe I would have thought you a fool , but ... well , that 's kind of what trust is , is n't it ?
3478 is-thought `` Once , maybe I would have thought you a fool , but ... well , that 's kind of what trust is , is n't it ?
3479 is-transcends ` That message transcends ideology and partisanship , because so many in the public think Washington is out of touch .
3480 is-transcends `` And now the U.S. is struggling to counter gains by the Islamic State in Iraq.The lack of success in that operation so far indicates that the next commander in chief will face challenges there - and beyond - with a smaller Army.America 's enemies , current and potential , know that.Yes , overdue federal fiscal restraint must include making our armed forces as lean and efficient as practically feasible.But as history has repeatedly taught , if America 's military strength is too severely compromised , our nation - and the world - will likely pay a tragic price that transcends monetary measure.Online : http://www.postandcourier.com/article/20150824/PC1002/150829730/1022/big-defense-cuts-big-risks
3481 is-tried `` I tried , but your worry over this house is meaningless !
3482 is-ve And as we 've reported previously , the data on wages in 2015 so far does not suggest there is a meaningful acceleration on the way.A drop in the price of oil , though , has created a short-term drop in inflation numbers that may create a temporary bump in inflation-adjusted incomes for 2015 anyway.The depressing data on middle-class wages is true across almost all groups based on race and age .
3483 is-ve You 've probably noticed this before , but it certainly is beautiful down here sometimes . ''
3484 is-ve `` The city of Holstep is about an hour more to the north , but I think we 've found what we came for .
3485 is-ve They know this is the last ball , and so they all came to put in an appearance , but they know they 've no time left for politicking . ''
3486 is-ve ` We 've been through other periods of high threat , but this time is different because of the proven reach of ISIS into Europe and the U.S. , ' said Matthew G. Olsen , a former director of the National Counterterrorism Center .
3487 is-ve The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3488 is-ve And as we 've reported previously , the data on wages in 2015 so far does not suggest there is a meaningful acceleration on the way.A drop in the price of oil , though , has created a short-term drop in inflation numbers that may create a temporary bump in inflation-adjusted incomes for 2015 anyway.The depressing data on middle-class wages is true across almost all groups based on race and age .
3489 is-ve You 've probably noticed this before , but it certainly is beautiful down here sometimes . ''
3490 is-ve `` The city of Holstep is about an hour more to the north , but I think we 've found what we came for .
3491 is-ve They know this is the last ball , and so they all came to put in an appearance , but they know they 've no time left for politicking . ''
3492 is-ve ` We 've been through other periods of high threat , but this time is different because of the proven reach of ISIS into Europe and the U.S. , ' said Matthew G. Olsen , a former director of the National Counterterrorism Center .
3493 is-ve The pope will speak the following day on Capitol Hill , where at least some of the focus will be on the reaction to his remarks from the presidential candidates sitting in the audience.The pope 's message in Washington is expected to touch on some of the issues that are sources of disagreement with Republicans , though it 's unlikely he will insert himself directly into presidential politics.Still , as Campbell , the Notre Dame professor , noted , `` One thing we 've learned about Pope Francis is that he 's very unpredictable . ''
3494 is-vote Even now , more say they definitely would not vote for him than say they support him.But the breadth of Mr. Trump 's coalition is surprising at a time of religious , ideological and geographic divisions in the Republican Party .
3495 is-vote In interviews , campaign pollsters argue that such polls , conducted largely by media organizations and universities , rely on feedback from many Republicans who are unlikely to vote because the polls do not verify the party registration or voting history of respondents - a fact that those conducting the surveys concede.New data provided to The Times by Civis Analytics , a firm aligned with Democrats and founded by the former chief analytics officer of the Obama re-election campaign , shows that there is merit to those concerns , but not enough to call Mr. Trump 's lead into question .
3496 is-vote ` What is unfolding nationally is reminiscent of the 1994 initiative championed by Pete Wilson , a Republican who was then governor of California , that sought to bar undocumented immigrants from attending public schools and seeking medical care.The measure , which passed but was never carried out , drove Latino immigrants to become naturalized in droves and register to vote .
3497 is-vote ` What is unfolding nationally is reminiscent of the 1994 initiative championed by Pete Wilson , a Republican who was then governor of California , that sought to bar undocumented immigrants from attending public schools and seeking medical care.The measure , which passed but was never carried out , drove Latino immigrants to become naturalized in droves and register to vote .
3498 is-whispered `` It is even whispered that Lord Renoux has some kind of ... leverage over House Venture . ''
3499 is-win Is he so different that he could even win?Mr .
3500 is-win But amassing the delegates and voters to win the nomination is a lot harder than withstanding attacks on controversial comments five or six months before an election.Grass-roots conservatives and liberals may resent it , but many analysts - including me - argue that the outcome of presidential nominations is shaped or even decided by party elites .
3501 is-win To win the presidency , Republicans clearly need to improve their numbers among women , but their approach on reproductive issues appears likely to make that goal difficult.Further compounding the hurdles facing Republicans are the party 's current drive to defund Planned Parenthood , and the sustained effort to reduce the number of abortion clinics in Republican-controlled states.This effort includes legislation effectively closing such clinics by requiring , in the case of Texas , that ' a physician performing or inducing an abortion must , on the date the abortion is performed , have active admitting privileges at a hospital that is located not further than 30 miles from the location at which the abortion is performed , ' and that abortion facilities must meet the ` minimum standards for ambulatory surgical centers ' ; requiring women to undergo sometimes invasive ultrasound procedures before being allowed to have an abortion ; and imposing restrictions on abortion coverage in private health insurance plans.The conflicts over reproductive rights within both the Republican Party and within the social conservative movement are inevitable .
3502 is-win To win the presidency , Republicans clearly need to improve their numbers among women , but their approach on reproductive issues appears likely to make that goal difficult.Further compounding the hurdles facing Republicans are the party 's current drive to defund Planned Parenthood , and the sustained effort to reduce the number of abortion clinics in Republican-controlled states.This effort includes legislation effectively closing such clinics by requiring , in the case of Texas , that ' a physician performing or inducing an abortion must , on the date the abortion is performed , have active admitting privileges at a hospital that is located not further than 30 miles from the location at which the abortion is performed , ' and that abortion facilities must meet the ` minimum standards for ambulatory surgical centers ' ; requiring women to undergo sometimes invasive ultrasound procedures before being allowed to have an abortion ; and imposing restrictions on abortion coverage in private health insurance plans.The conflicts over reproductive rights within both the Republican Party and within the social conservative movement are inevitable .
3503 is-win To win the presidency , Republicans clearly need to improve their numbers among women , but their approach on reproductive issues appears likely to make that goal difficult.Further compounding the hurdles facing Republicans are the party 's current drive to defund Planned Parenthood , and the sustained effort to reduce the number of abortion clinics in Republican-controlled states.This effort includes legislation effectively closing such clinics by requiring , in the case of Texas , that ' a physician performing or inducing an abortion must , on the date the abortion is performed , have active admitting privileges at a hospital that is located not further than 30 miles from the location at which the abortion is performed , ' and that abortion facilities must meet the ` minimum standards for ambulatory surgical centers ' ; requiring women to undergo sometimes invasive ultrasound procedures before being allowed to have an abortion ; and imposing restrictions on abortion coverage in private health insurance plans.The conflicts over reproductive rights within both the Republican Party and within the social conservative movement are inevitable .
3504 is-win `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
3505 is-win A lot.A wide range of political science research suggests that if you want to know who will win the presidency , the state of the economy - and especially how economic conditions are changing - matters a great deal , perhaps even more than how charismatic the candidates are or how much money they raise.The election is 16 months away , but knowing what we know now , what should we expect the economic backdrop to be when Americans choose their next president ?
3506 isolated-tell And that should tell us something , because those hard-liners are invested in the status quo in which Iran is isolated , and they are empowered .
3507 issued-resume `` Conner Eldridge might want to remove the line about working for President Obama on his resume , because his ties to the unpopular President make him unelectable in Arkansas , '' National Republican Senatorial Committee Communications Director Andrea Bozek said in a statement issued shortly after Eldridge 's announcement .
3508 jared-split ` It 's a visionary document and basically says , ` You 're with me or you 're not , ' and we can have big philosophical arguments about the role of government , and perhaps in 2016 we will , ' said Jared Bernstein , a former top economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. ` The other way to look at it is , it 's a Chinese menu , and you 're not going to share the duck , but you might split the egg rolls .
3509 javed-telling ` Your family is calling you and telling you they have run out of food , but you can not send them money , ' Lieutenant Javed said , describing the plight of soldiers who are often the sole breadwinners for large families .
3510 jest-tepper `` You jest , but Tepper might have been right .
3511 join-making You promised us wealth so we 'd join you , but you never had any intention of making us rich .
3512 joined-went So , you went to the Lord Ruler -- guilty but determined -- and joined his guards . ''
3513 jostle-was Venture was rich enough , and powerful enough , that even mercantile disaster would only jostle it .
3514 jump-landed He landed smoothly , but immediately had to jump to the side as a group of soldiers attacked .
3515 jump-slamming She tried to jump for a third soldier , but another man swung his quarterstaff , slamming the weapon into Vin 's side .
3516 jump-was Demoux tried to jump out of the way of the last swing , but he was too slow .
3517 jump-wiping ` The 2016 presidential candidates and their individual-candidate super PACs are wiping out the nation 's anticorruption candidate contribution limits , ' said Fred Wertheimer , the president of Democracy 21 , which favors tighter limits on political money.But the looser rules for super PACs have also helped expand the pool of candidates , letting a small number of very wealthy people jump-start contenders who might otherwise not make it to the first primary contests next year .
3518 jumped-slashing She lunged , slashing , but her opponent jumped backward .
3519 jutted-look She did n't have the will to look , but the agony from her torso told her that her leg jutted from beneath her body , broken at an awkward angle .
3520 jutted-shadowed His face was shadowed , but his spikeheads jutted from the front of the cowl .
3521 jutting-varied They varied greatly in thickness -- some were wide enough to house stairwells and large rooms , but others were simply thin rods of steel jutting up into the sky .
3522 kar-offer `` You say such things often , Kar , but you never offer any proof . ''
3523 keep-put Keep Lekal 's windows , however , put most of them to shame .
3524 keep-shut `` It should have shut down hours ago , but you have pewter to make it keep going .
3525 keep-staying It was meager , barely enough to keep him alive , but it was better than the starvation that would come from staying below too long .
3526 keep-use Keep the earring -- it 's small , so you wo n't be able to do much with it , but you could use it as a weapon in an emergency . ''
3527 keep-was It was more food than she could possibly eat ; however , she intended to scrape out the barley and save the flatbread , which would keep well should she need it later .
3528 keep-was It was amazing that one so old had even been able to keep up .
3529 keep-was It was meager , barely enough to keep him alive , but it was better than the starvation that would come from staying below too long .
3530 keep-was The sun was setting , making it even easier to see the illuminated Keep Venture -- Elend 's choice of headquarters for the moment , though he might still move to Kredik Shaw .
3531 keep-was Others vowed to keep the debate alive in a more measured and indirect way , by advocating for the rights of Christians and others who worry the ruling could force them to violate their religious beliefs.But either way , the clash over same-sex marriage seems likely to smolder well into the 2016 primary season , despite the hopes of many less hard-line Republicans that a Supreme Court decision would allow the party finally to move past one of the most divisive aspects of the culture wars.Mike Huckabee , the former governor of Arkansas , said that while he was certain that ` some cowardly politicians will wave the white flag , ' he was determined not to bow to a decision he saw as illegitimate . '
3532 keep-was Others vowed to keep the debate alive in a more measured and indirect way , by advocating for the rights of Christians and others who worry the ruling could force them to violate their religious beliefs.But either way , the clash over same-sex marriage seems likely to smolder well into the 2016 primary season , despite the hopes of many less hard-line Republicans that a Supreme Court decision would allow the party finally to move past one of the most divisive aspects of the culture wars.Mike Huckabee , the former governor of Arkansas , said that while he was certain that ` some cowardly politicians will wave the white flag , ' he was determined not to bow to a decision he saw as illegitimate . '
3533 keeping-resent Keeping five Tineyes on watch would n't be that hard for a house like Tekiel , but the noblemen Allomancers would resent being forced into simple guard duty .
3534 keeping-slapped The Inquisitor slapped them away with a fury , but was obviously having trouble keeping track of them all .
3535 keeps-manipulating In a way , that made manipulating them easier -- but sneaking around their keeps was getting very dangerous .
3536 kelsier-share They all seemed committed to Kelsier 's plan ; some even seemed to share his vision .
3537 kelsier-started The solemn group started to move , but Kelsier did n't need to state the obvious .
3538 kept-make Koloss troops make wonderful grunts , but they have to be kept away from civilized cities .
3539 kept-noticing Kliss just kept on talking , not even noticing that Vin had something she herself wanted to share .
3540 kept-promote And Mr. Giles just set up a nonprofit to promote Mr. Carson 's views using money from donors whose gifts can be unlimited , but whose identities can legally be kept secret .
3541 kept-regarding The crew still had reservations regarding Kelsier 's rising fame with the skaa , though they kept their word and remained silent .
3542 kept-sazed Sazed was right : Long hair was certainly the fashion , though an equal number kept their hair up as left it down .
3543 kept-sticking However , he mostly kept them running at an even pace , sticking to the canal .
3544 kicking-pinned The Inquisitor pinned her arms to her sides , however , and her backward kicking did very little good .
3545 kill-stopped She was probably going to kill me next , but Reen stopped her .
3546 kill-take It might take him time , but he could kill forever , tirelessly .
3547 kill-work Usually , I let them kill each other in one of their foolish wars , but these riots will work . ''
3548 killed-trying He 's trying to do something good -- though it will probably get him killed . ''
3549 killing-throw As she watched , the skaa began to throw up their hands , but the soldiers just kept on killing them .
3550 knew-made She was n't sure if he knew why his plans went better when she was in the room , but he had apparently made the connection .
3551 knew-made Elend smiled mischievously , then turned back to his book , eyes sparkling as if to indicate that he 'd made the comment simply because he knew the reaction he 'd get .
3552 knew-regarding There was a sense of mourning regarding Marsh , but these were men who knew how to move on despite their losses .
3553 knew-searched She searched desperately for aid from the other crewmembers -- however , she knew what she would find .
3554 knew-suppose I suppose I could use one of them , but I could n't go to any major balls or parties -- it would be rather embarrassing if I met someone who knew me by a different alias . ''
3555 knew-understand Then ... something within her -- something she knew of but did n't understand -- gave her strength .
3556 knew-was It was basic Ministry doctrine ; even a skaa like Vin knew that much .
3557 knew-was Last I knew , though , he was n't in the market for a wife . ''
3558 knew-was He knew I was lying to him , but I do n't think he realized that I was skaa .
3559 knew-was There was a sense of mourning regarding Marsh , but these were men who knew how to move on despite their losses .
3560 knew-was It was basic Ministry doctrine ; even a skaa like Vin knew that much .
3561 knew-was Last I knew , though , he was n't in the market for a wife . ''
3562 knew-was He knew I was lying to him , but I do n't think he realized that I was skaa .
3563 knew-was There was a sense of mourning regarding Marsh , but these were men who knew how to move on despite their losses .
3564 knocked-tried The boy tried a thrust , but Bilg easily knocked it away .
3565 knocking-renewed She renewed her struggles , but Camon hit her again , knocking her to the ground .
3566 know-learn `` I do n't know why I even care -- anything you learn is bound to be worthless .
3567 know-lifting I want people to know what I 'm all about right now , because I think the country needs lifting , ' Mr. Kasich said in an interview with CBS 's ` Face the Nation . ' '
3568 know-misting `` You know a lot about all the metals , but you 're just a Misting , right ? ''
3569 know-misting Those soldiers do n't know I 'm a Misting , but they know I work in the underground .
3570 know-misting `` You know a lot about all the metals , but you 're just a Misting , right ? ''
3571 know-misting Those soldiers do n't know I 'm a Misting , but they know I work in the underground .
3572 know-progressed She prodded Liese further as the dance progressed , but he was obviously too inexperienced to know much .
3573 know-promise `` I did n't know him for very long , but ... well , I can promise you this , Elend : His love was as strong as that of any nobleman .
3574 know-put `` I know it 's instinctual , Vin , but you do n't have to put your hands forward when you Push -- nor do you have to drop what you 're holding . ''
3575 know-put They know this is the last ball , and so they all came to put in an appearance , but they know they 've no time left for politicking . ''
3576 know-see `` It 's not like pornography where you know it when you see it , but clearly low standards you know it .
3577 know-stay I did n't know there was a better life , but I just could n't stay , not with Kareien 's family there , not with Lord Devinshae watching us work ... . ''
3578 know-stay They know that the skaa are beaten , but they want to make sure things stay that way . ''
3579 know-think I want people to know what I 'm all about right now , because I think the country needs lifting , ' Mr. Kasich said in an interview with CBS 's ` Face the Nation . ' '
3580 know-think `` You think me a fool , traveler , '' Tepper said , `` but I know what you 're doing .
3581 know-think `` I do n't know -- but we 'll have to think of something .
3582 know-think `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
3583 know-think `` You know , something must be wrong with me -- I barely even stop to think how much this stuff is worth anymore . ''
3584 know-think I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3585 know-think I want people to know what I 'm all about right now , because I think the country needs lifting , ' Mr. Kasich said in an interview with CBS 's ` Face the Nation . ' '
3586 know-think `` You think me a fool , traveler , '' Tepper said , `` but I know what you 're doing .
3587 know-think `` I do n't know -- but we 'll have to think of something .
3588 know-think `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
3589 know-think `` You know , something must be wrong with me -- I barely even stop to think how much this stuff is worth anymore . ''
3590 know-think I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3591 know-think I want people to know what I 'm all about right now , because I think the country needs lifting , ' Mr. Kasich said in an interview with CBS 's ` Face the Nation . ' '
3592 know-think `` You think me a fool , traveler , '' Tepper said , `` but I know what you 're doing .
3593 know-think `` I do n't know -- but we 'll have to think of something .
3594 know-think `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
3595 know-think `` You know , something must be wrong with me -- I barely even stop to think how much this stuff is worth anymore . ''
3596 know-think I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3597 know-think I want people to know what I 'm all about right now , because I think the country needs lifting , ' Mr. Kasich said in an interview with CBS 's ` Face the Nation . ' '
3598 know-think `` You think me a fool , traveler , '' Tepper said , `` but I know what you 're doing .
3599 know-think `` I do n't know -- but we 'll have to think of something .
3600 know-think `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
3601 know-think `` You know , something must be wrong with me -- I barely even stop to think how much this stuff is worth anymore . ''
3602 know-think I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3603 know-think I want people to know what I 'm all about right now , because I think the country needs lifting , ' Mr. Kasich said in an interview with CBS 's ` Face the Nation . ' '
3604 know-think `` You think me a fool , traveler , '' Tepper said , `` but I know what you 're doing .
3605 know-think `` I do n't know -- but we 'll have to think of something .
3606 know-think `` I do n't know what he is -- but I think he 's more like a man than he is a god .
3607 know-think `` You know , something must be wrong with me -- I barely even stop to think how much this stuff is worth anymore . ''
3608 know-think I think that there is a generational element to it , but I do n't know if it 's a divide in that it 's uncrossable , ' he said . '
3609 knowing-relish As it relates to my brother , there 's one thing I know for sure : He kept us safe , ' Mr. Bush said , drawing strong applause on a night when he often delivered sharp lines with an uneasy , obligatory tone - knowing he had to attack but seeming not to relish it.Mr .
3610 known-needed The crew had made her feel needed for a time , but she 'd always known it would end .
3611 kuching-overturned The High Court of Sabah and Sarawak in Kuching agreed , but its decision was overturned by the Court of Appeal .
3612 lack-recapturing Democrats have no preferred candidate in New Hampshire and North Carolina , and Republicans lack one in Colorado.But the Democrats ' goal of recapturing the Senate , which would require gaining four or five seats , depending on the results of the presidential race , and the Republicans ' hope of fending them off will almost certainly be tied to the fate of each party 's presidential candidate and how voters assess the legacy of President Obama .
3613 lacked-overthrow `` Previous attempts to overthrow the Lord Ruler have failed because they lacked proper organization and planning .
3614 lacking-opposed For example , just read one recent paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association.The two physicians in the debate , Ben Carson and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky , argued that while science connecting vaccines and autism is lacking , spreading out the childhood vaccination schedule might be advisable.But that 's a position strongly opposed by the medical community - because there is no link between autism and vaccination , spacing vaccines will not reduce the risk of a child developing autism.But because many parents ask for such delayed schedules , doctors often accommodate such demands , putting children at risk of catching diseases before they are vaccinated or potentially failing to complete their recommended vaccines.Failing to vaccinate children has clear health risks .
3615 lacking-stained Little stained glass windows , no wider than her hand , ran up the outside wall -- though they were dark in color , lacking backlight .
3616 laid-stain `` I ... '' He laid a hand on Vin 's arm , but she pulled it away , only to feel a teardrop drip down her face and stain her dress .
3617 lanky-was He shared Kelsier 's lanky build and blond hair , but he was n't as handsome .
3618 lashing-mended Bruises and welts mended , but each new lashing left Vin more hardened .
3619 laying-shiver `` Excuse me , Lord Milen , '' she said , laying a hand on his arm -- though touching him made her shiver slightly .
3620 leading-see To his `` eyes '' he would see nothing but a mess of blue lines -- each one leading to a speck of metal .
3621 leading-was `` What is important for the IOC is that we want to send the athletes only to cities where they are welcome , '' Bach said , adding that the IOC will carry out its own confidential polling in all the bid cities.Germany , which last held the Summer Olympics in Munich in 1972 , is the leading contender to host the European soccer championship in 2024 , but Bach - a German - said there was no reason the country could n't hold both events .
3622 leading-was ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
3623 leading-was ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
3624 leading-was It was n't a regular hillside cavern , but instead a simple rend in the ground leading directly down .
3625 leads-think The lord prelan leads the church , but the Inquisitors think that they should be in charge . ''
3626 leaned-sit She leaned on the table for support , but did not sit .
3627 leaned-speak Ham was about to speak further , but Yeden leaned across him .
3628 learn-speed `` Trump acknowledged he has a lot to learn about foreign policy but vowed to be up to speed in time .
3629 learned-nail ` Well , I have n't learned yet to trust the Iranian leadership , ' said Mr. Obama , ` although I think that what John Kerry learned in his interactions with Foreign Minister Zarif - and that then traces back to President Rouhani - is that when you nail down an agreement , they do seem to follow it to the letter , perhaps thinking there may be a loophole here or there , which is why you have to button this stuff down .
3630 learned-opposes He still opposes them , and same-sex marriage.But he learned between his 1994 defeat and 1998 victory to reach out to minorities and speak inclusively and hopefully .
3631 leave-predicted He predicted that the rebellion would die out quickly , but that it would leave piles of corpses in its wake .
3632 leave-stealing `` I apologize for stealing General Hammond , but I leave a very competent man in his place .
3633 leave-wanted But I did n't leave the last two out because I wanted to keep things from you .
3634 leave-write ` To be sure , ' Walter and Wasserman write , ' a return to pre-2008 African-American turnout levels would n't necessarily doom a Hillary Clinton candidacy , but it would leave her with a whole lot less margin for error in a host of swing states . '
3635 leaving-staking JERUSALEM -- Staking out the most extreme position on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in the crowded field of Republican candidates -- one to the right of even Israel 's conservative government -- former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas said Wednesday that the entire occupied West Bank was part of Israel , leaving no room for a Palestinian state there .
3636 led-re They 're frighteningly close to Luthadel , but the Lord Ruler has never led a successful raid against anyone here .
3637 left-loom The servants eventually left her alone , though Sazed continued to loom just behind her .
3638 left-recognized It had been there before -- she recognized it because it was so much thinner than the others -- so the Terrisman had n't left it behind .
3639 legalizing-repeated He repeated his assertion that the `` war on drugs has been a failure , '' but said , `` that does n't mean we should be legalizing gateway drugs . ''
3640 lessen-pass Still , Congress could pass new , even tougher terrorism-related sanctions on key Iranian leaders.The White House has repeatedly said the lifting of current sanctions would not lessen Washington 's resolve to counter Iranian aggression in the Middle East .
3641 let-liked ` In an interview on ` Fox & Friends ' a few days after Mr. Stone 's departure from the campaign , Mr. Trump said , ` Roger Stone is a nice guy , but I let him go because I really was n't using him and he liked to get a lot of publicity for himself , which I did n't want .
3642 let-reiterates `` The president reiterates that although Taiwan-mainland China relations are at their most stable in 66 years , we absolutely will not let national defense slack one single bit , '' Ma 's office said in a statement Thursday.Relations with China could go into a freeze after a new president takes office in Taipei in May .
3643 let-resisting Resisting the Lord Ruler 's Pushing on their emotions did n't seem like half as much a struggle for Kelsier anymore , though Vin had let her zinc lapse .
3644 let-was He declined to pursue a serious candidacy because he was too young to meet the constitutional age requirement , but from that moment on he was a national figure.When he was elected to the Georgia House of Representatives in 1965 , along with seven other black members , furious white members of the House refused to let him take his seat , accusing him of disloyalty .
3645 let-was Flen was sure it was just a mistwraith impersonating her , but I had to let her in !
3646 let-was Flen was sure it was just a mistwraith impersonating her , but I had to let her in !
3647 let-was The mismatched limbs let the creature walk -- though it was more of a shamble .
3648 let-was She did , however , pick at the food -- her instincts would n't let her pass up a free meal , even if it was prepared by unfamiliar hands .
3649 let-was Her hair was getting a bit long for her taste -- though somehow she doubted that Sazed was going to let her have it cropped boyishly short .
3650 let-was ` In an interview on ` Fox & Friends ' a few days after Mr. Stone 's departure from the campaign , Mr. Trump said , ` Roger Stone is a nice guy , but I let him go because I really was n't using him and he liked to get a lot of publicity for himself , which I did n't want .
3651 lets-works Gold works in a similar way , but it lets you see into the past .
3652 letting-listen ` The president also said : ` America has to listen to our Sunni Arab allies , but also not fall into the trap of letting them blame every problem on Iran .
3653 letting-stay Letting her go would be a gamble -- but forcing her to stay would be a bigger one .
3654 letting-surrender Some of them tried to surrender , but our soldiers were n't letting them .
3655 leveraging-specialized When Ready for Hillary , a pro-Hillary Rodham Clinton ` super PAC , ' wanted to take out a million-dollar loan five months before it planned to go out of business , it turned to a bank that was founded to guard the savings of New York City garment workers.When the Democracy Alliance , an influential club of liberal donors , sought to recruit members in advance of the 2016 elections , the bank 's president helped to make introductions.And when workers-rights groups wanted to embarrass Walmart and the Gap for unsafe working conditions at factories supplying their stores , Amalgamated Bank , which manages $ 40 billion in pension fund assets , stepped in again , rounding up fellow investors to warn the companies that they could face lawsuits and shareholder actions.Four years after nearly collapsing amid the financial crisis , Amalgamated has aggressively carved out a position as the left 's private banker , leveraging deep connections with the Democratic establishment to expand rapidly in a niche long dominated by larger but less nimble financial institutions.The bank 's rise has been driven not only by the pace and complexity of modern campaigns , which demand increasingly specialized financial services , but by their vastly expanded scale : Billion-dollar presidential campaigns are expected for both parties in 2016 , bolstered by super PACs raising hundreds of millions of dollars more.And with Republican outside groups raising substantially more than their left-leaning counterparts this year , Democratic strategists viewed Amalgamated as a tool to leverage the financial clout of labor unions and left-leaning philanthropists.Founded and still principally owned by labor unions , the 92-year-old bank has signed up hundreds of new political clients , including most of the Democratic Party 's major committees , the progressive organizations that align with them , and several of their top Senate recruits.This spring , Amalgamated scored its biggest coup yet , winning the main business for Mrs. Clinton 's presidential campaign , which is likely to raise a billion dollars or more.Campaign clients have access to a 24-hour concierge service , staffed by veterans of President Obama 's campaigns , to handle last-minute media buys or reconcile election paperwork.Because it knows their donor world , Amalgamated is willing to advance cash on new contributions , almost immediately .
3656 lie-traveling We must press forward , traveling as much as we can each day -- but when I finally lie down , I find sleep elusive .
3657 lie-work Many courtly women would die for hair like this -- it has just enough body to lie full , but is straight enough to work with easily . ''
3658 lined-served ` Trump served notice that the donors ' platform is n't even acceptable inside the party , ' Mr. Frum said.Of course , there are reasons the reformocons have not lined up to support Mr. Trump .
3659 lingered-running Theron 's eyes lingered on her , however , running down the length of her body .
3660 link-suggested ` They suggested I 'd be friendly with Middle East terrorist organizations , and even tried to link me to a dead communist dictator . ''
3661 listen-re They 're beautiful to look at , and sometimes they 're nice to listen to -- but most of the time they 're just plain inconvenient . ''
3662 lit-look In the lit room , however , the black colors made him look menacing .
3663 lit-was The chamber was only lit by a single lantern , but it was far cleaner than the room outside .
3664 lit-were There were no guards , but the tower ahead of her had a lit sentrypost at its base .
3665 live-take But now ... well , I hope I live to see you dead , because this house is in for dire times if you ever take control . ''
3666 lived-received During this season , men and women who have lived lives of bookish reserve and who are thoroughly unknown to the general public become , for a brief time , objects of considerable desire.As a national-security expert who worked with politicians but had no political agenda of his own , Fontaine received multiple inquiries .
3667 lived-try `` And there are always those who try to use the name of the Survivor , but I do not believe that any man could have lived through the Pits .
3668 ll-survive We 'll fight , we 'll do some good , but we wo n't change much -- and those of us who survive will spend the rest of our lives running from the Inquisitors .
3669 ll-survive We 'll fight , we 'll do some good , but we wo n't change much -- and those of us who survive will spend the rest of our lives running from the Inquisitors .
3670 ll-thinking We 'll plan specifics at the next meeting , but I want you all to be thinking about the job .
3671 ll-train `` We 'll have to be quiet , but quick , and train them somewhere that the Lord Ruler wo n't find them . ''
3672 ll-working `` So far , I 've really been the only one in the crew working on the house war -- but if we 're going to make this city snap before the Garrison returns , we 'll need to step up our efforts . ''
3673 loathe-looked Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio sounded a measured tone on the Iran nuclear deal that most Republicans loathe , but at other points looked angry , even when he was in a split-screen shot .
3674 locate-penetrating The blue lines were thin and weak -- they did n't do well penetrating wood -- but they were just strong enough to let Kelsier locate the belt latch of a person out in the hallway , moving quickly away from the door on silent feet .
3675 locking-pass And , in one instance , the House failed miserably to pass a tax increase even after locking its members into the chamber for hours while leaders tried to threaten some into changing their votes.On Thursday afternoon , Gov. Sam Brownback stood before his fellow Republicans , who dominate the Legislature , to deliver what seemed to be a mix of a basketball coach 's pep talk and a scorned lover 's plea .
3676 london-was The French capital was the favorite for the 2012 Games but lost out to London.Rome is seeking to take the games back to the Italian capital for the first time since 1960 .
3677 look-re `` Mistwraiths might be a bit disturbing to look at , but they 're relatively harmless .
3678 look-re `` Mistwraiths might look eerie , but they 're hardly worth such a long trip .
3679 look-re They 're beautiful to look at , and sometimes they 're nice to listen to -- but most of the time they 're just plain inconvenient . ''
3680 look-re `` Mistwraiths might be a bit disturbing to look at , but they 're relatively harmless .
3681 look-re `` Mistwraiths might look eerie , but they 're hardly worth such a long trip .
3682 look-re They 're beautiful to look at , and sometimes they 're nice to listen to -- but most of the time they 're just plain inconvenient . ''
3683 look-think You look young enough for your age that they wo n't even think twice .
3684 looked-reminded I just needed to be reminded that there were people who fought even when things looked hopeless . ''
3685 looked-seen Elend looked away , but she had already seen the anger and guilt in his eyes .
3686 looked-think Ash and soot had been too much a part of her life , and she did n't think she 'd even had a concept of what a pristine white looked like .
3687 looked-ve ` And they looked at me , ' he said , ` and said , ` But you 've got statistics . ''
3688 looked-walking Vin looked at him questioningly , but he said no more , rising and walking down the hillside .
3689 looked-were I just needed to be reminded that there were people who fought even when things looked hopeless . ''
3690 looked-were The decorations were lavish , but the rooms looked ... unused .
3691 looking-turned He turned a bruised head toward her , one eye swollen , but the other looking into her eyes .
3692 looking-was She was n't afraid of heights in particular , but who would n't be apprehensive , standing atop the wall , looking down at her doom ?
3693 looks-sleep `` It 's not as bad as it looks -- I took it easy coming back , even stopped to sleep for a few hours on the way . ''
3694 looks-were Some of the skaa gave the crew looks of resentment , though many were just dull-eyed and compliant .
3695 loom-were They were about the same height , but Marsh 's stern personality always made him seem to loom taller .
3696 looms-reject But it also looms over the entire G.O.P. field , reminding the candidates that though Republican voters reject what they see as Obama 's timid foreign policy , the public has only so much appetite for bellicosity after more than a decade spent entangled in the Middle East .
3697 loosen-remake He said he would not accept spending bills that maintained tough budget caps he agreed to in 2011 , nor would he loosen budget controls on military spending without relaxing them for domestic programs.But hidden in some of his most ambitious proposals to diminish the wealth gap and remake the corporate tax code are areas of potential compromise that nod to Republican ideas : an expansion of the earned income credit for the working poor , a revitalized Pentagon budget , and a surge in spending on roads , bridges , airports and other infrastructure , financed by a new tax rate on foreign corporate profits.Absent from the plan is any pretense of remaking the main drivers of the long-term debt - Social Security and Medicare - a quest that has long eluded both parties .
3698 lose-push `` If you were to Push on something else , or move too much to one side , though ... well , you 'd lose your anchor below , and would n't be pushing directly up anymore .
3699 lost-was The French capital was the favorite for the 2012 Games but lost out to London.Rome is seeking to take the games back to the Italian capital for the first time since 1960 .
3700 lost-was I risked , and I lost , but the risk was still worth it .
3701 lost-was She was still far more careful than most people , but she had lost so much .
3702 lost-went I wo n't say he lost his mojo , ' Mr. Stone said of Mr. Carlson , ` but he lost some of it when he went to a straight tie .
3703 love-reen Kelsier had led her along , telling her to trust and to love , but Reen had always been the truthful one .
3704 love-took He took particular issue with Mr. Trump 's support for higher tariffs and his apparent disregard for long-term deficits.Even those reformocons who are immigration hawks do not necessarily find much to love in Mr. Trump 's agenda .
3705 loved-s I 'm not the only skaa to lose a loved one to a lord 's passion , or even to a lord 's indifference .
3706 lying-realized He knew I was lying to him , but I do n't think he realized that I was skaa .
3707 made-prosecuted In other cases , the office has prosecuted people for ancillary crimes even after they had made plea agreements .
3708 made-seem It was made of soft lace , but there did n't seem to be anything unusual about it .
3709 made-tether Mr. Bush has said he is his own man , as some critics have sought to tether him to his brother 's legacy , but Mr. Bush has also made clear in several speeches his love for the former president .
3710 made-was Mennis was n't the first to arrive at the edge of the short hilltop plateau , but the group made way for him when he did .
3711 made-was She was n't sure if he knew why his plans went better when she was in the room , but he had apparently made the connection .
3712 made-was She was n't sure if he knew why his plans went better when she was in the room , but he had apparently made the connection .
3713 made-was He was perhaps fourteen , though his height might have made him look older than he was .
3714 made-was She was tall for a skaa woman -- though standing next to Sazed made her look diminutive .
3715 made-was She was old enough that she should have been either bearing children or working in a mill , but her size often made her look younger in profile .
3716 made-was He was murdered by a local king for preaching discord -- something he was apparently very good at -- but that only made his following larger .
3717 made-was He was murdered by a local king for preaching discord -- something he was apparently very good at -- but that only made his following larger .
3718 made-was It was hard to tell in the night , but it seemed that the four bars made a line that pointed directly toward Luthadel .
3719 made-was Of course , he probably had n't made the decision to go until a short time before -- even the new , more responsible Kelsier was an impulsive man .
3720 made-was In a way , that made manipulating them easier -- but sneaking around their keeps was getting very dangerous .
3721 made-was Her splinted leg made it harder to move around at night , but most of the effort she used was Allomantic .
3722 made-was Mrs. Fiorina made the most of every question she was asked , and she seized the floor even when it was n't her turn .
3723 made-was Trump , who received draft deferments through much of the Vietnam War , told the author of a coming biography that he nevertheless ` always felt that I was in the military ' because of his education at a military-themed boarding school.As Mr. Biden made his way through a Labor Day parade in Pittsburgh , the crowd repeatedly shouted their hopes that he would seek the Democratic nomination .
3724 maintain-were They maintain a 24-to-18 majority in the Senate , though its seats were not at play in the last elections , as they will be in 2016 .
3725 maintained-nodded He nodded respectfully to Kelsier , but maintained a dignified air .
3726 maintained-rest She maintained her speed , but she could feel something underneath it -- a resistance within , a longing to stop and rest .
3727 maintaining-penned About 4,100 Afghan soldiers and police officers have been killed and about 7,800 wounded , according to statistics provided by an official with the American-led coalition here.A range of interviews with army and police commanders and regional government officials in crucial battleground areas indicated that even though the Afghan forces have nominally met their goal of maintaining a presence in every city and all but a very few district centers , they are often functionally penned in by the Taliban , rarely mounting patrols , much less taking territory back.At the same time , they say the insurgents have increased their influence in many areas , even near cities , giving them the ability to move freely and mount intensified attacks on the Afghan forces .
3728 make-realize Self-important in a way that could make even a confident person uncertain , Shan was -- as Vin was beginning to realize -- exactly what most of the aristocracy thought was the perfect woman .
3729 make-recalled ` One person can make a difference , ' he said at another.But he also spoke with emotional power , as when he recalled his father 's early job in an ice cream factory in Newark .
3730 make-ridding The smell would make her less inconspicuous , true , but that seemed a slim price for ridding herself of the dirt and grime she 'd picked up while traveling .
3731 make-wear `` One would think that the nobility would n't want to wear metal , because that would make them vulnerable to Allomancy . ''
3732 manage-was It was a bit obvious , but it was the best she could manage .
3733 managed-teach Many religions teach such ideals , but few actually managed to practice them as well as the Bennet . ''
3734 mandated-teach But moderator Campbell Brown says the purpose of the standards is for students to understand math concepts in a deeper way.Jindal says parents should be able to send their children to schools that teach Common Core if they choose , but it should n't be mandated in all schools .
3735 match-was It would match her hair , but was it too dark ?
3736 matched-outshone And the dancers matched , perhaps even outshone , the exquisite setting .
3737 mattered-think Casual passers might think her a boy , though Ham did n't seem to think it mattered .
3738 mean-used I mean , I 've never really even used Allomancy before this evening ! ''
3739 meandering-was He is also an unconventional one.His 43-minute , sometimes meandering speech , delivered with notes but no script and no teleprompter , was classic Kasich .
3740 means-stopping Unfortunately , stopping people from voting has become a key part of the modern Republican playbook.The 2016 election will be about many important issues , from income inequality to immigration to health care to education , but at its core it will be a test of two ideas of what it means to be a democracy .
3741 meant-moving The sunlight was faint , which meant it was still early morning , but she could already hear people moving in the hallway .
3742 meant-was ONAWA , Iowa - Scott Walker 's suggestion that building a wall between Canada and the U.S. might be a `` legitimate '' idea prompted swift derision from fellow Republicans on Monday and an attempt by his campaign to clarify what he meant.It was the latest misstep for a 2016 presidential candidate who got off to a strong start but has fallen back into the pack after a series of fumbles and a lackluster performance in the first GOP debate.The Wisconsin governor was asked on NBC 's `` Meet the Press '' on Sunday whether he thought a wall should be built along the more than 5,000 miles of border with Canada .
3743 meant-was A flat roof meant having to shovel off ash occasionally , which was why most skaa buildings were peaked , but in Kelsier 's opinion the view was often worth a bit of trouble .
3744 meant-wonder `` I wonder if his death even meant anything , '' she said quietly .
3745 meet-practiced If we meet again , I 'll show you more , but there 's nothing else I can do until you 've practiced . ''
3746 mention-relishes `` Sanders ' remarks came on the same day that Americans for Prosperity , a conservative activists organization backed heavily by the Kochs , heard from several Republican White House hopefuls.Sanders typically does not mention Clinton or any Republican candidates by name , but relishes telling his audiences that he stands out for refusing any support from Super PACs , the political committees that can accept the unlimited sums as long as they do n't coordinate directly with candidates ' principal campaign committees.He says he has more than 400,000 individual contributors who have chipped in an average of $ 31.20 .
3747 mentioned-sponsored A Google Consumer Survey sponsored by Echelon Insights gave voters the opportunity to describe why they supported Mr. Trump , and over all , half of his supporters said they liked him because of his authenticity , compared with 14 percent who mentioned a policy.There is no guarantee , of course , that Mr. Trump can pull this off indefinitely .
3748 met-suppose I suppose I could use one of them , but I could n't go to any major balls or parties -- it would be rather embarrassing if I met someone who knew me by a different alias . ''
3749 met-suppose Kwaan and I met by happenstance -- though , I suppose , he would use the word `` providence . ''
3750 mimic-shape `` They can shape their skin around any skeletal structure , and can even recreate muscles and organs if they have a model to mimic . ''
3751 mimic-wears The Lord Ruler wears metal because he knows that the nobility will mimic him , and therefore give his Inquisitors power over them . ''
3752 missing-were He was missing a hand , but his eyes and ears were among the keenest in the crew .
3753 misting-s He 's not even a Misting . ''
3754 misting-work The Inquisitors work though their manipulation of bronze , and the Misting underground survives because of its reliance upon copper .
3755 mocked-tangled Mr. Perry , himself a former Air Force officer , tangled with Mr. Trump from afar , even challenging him to a pull-up contest at one point not long after Mr. Trump mocked his glasses .
3756 modeled-proved This was during a troop surge modeled after the maneuver in Iraq , but in Afghanistan , the tactic proved ineffectual .
3757 modernizing-registering This would be a transformative step toward modernizing the nation 's archaic , error-filled approach to registering voters.No state currently has such inclusive registration , although Oregon came closest in March when it passed a law automatically registering eligible citizens with a driver 's license - instantly adding 300,000 voters to the rolls .
3758 monitor-requires It remains well funded - earning close to $ 1 billion a year in oil revenues and taxes , according to Treasury Department estimates - and has expanded to other countries , including Libya , Afghanistan and the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt.Current and former counterterrorism and intelligence officials , as well as some lawmakers , who closely monitor risks overseas say that although the risks of the Islamic State are real , the overall threat is more complex and requires a nuanced strategy .
3759 motivate-retake Trump 's strength among less-frequent voters is a challenge for his campaign , which may lack the organizing experience and infrastructure to motivate them and turn them out in large numbers for a primary or caucus.But those irregular voters , like Norman Kas-mikha , 41 , a grocer from Shelby Township , Mich. , represent a real opportunity for the Republican Party , which is determined to retake the White House in 2016 after losing the last two campaigns .
3760 motivated-peppered The legislators who sponsored the 2013 law have refused to testify , citing legislative immunity.During closing arguments Friday , Judge Schroeder , who was appointed by President George W. Bush , peppered the plaintiffs ' lawyers with questions about why the repeal of extra voting opportunities that do not exist in many states would be illegal.But he also pressed the state 's lawyers on what motivated legislators to make the sudden changes to a system that seemed to be popular and working well .
3761 move-used Her splinted leg made it harder to move around at night , but most of the effort she used was Allomantic .
3762 moved-raised The foremost hazekiller raised his shield , but he moved too slowly .
3763 mrs-suggest Those 2014 results suggest that Republicans have a route to winning the White House , even if it 's a narrower one than the Democrats ' path.Yes , Mrs. Clinton has a large lead over her likeliest Republican challengers in national polls , including in many of the most important battleground states .
3764 munching-were Wine and ale were present , though in small amounts , and the men were munching on a simple evening snack of puffed barley cakes and battered vegetables .
3765 murdered-neutralized `` They have to be neutralized , '' Sazed said , `` but not necessarily murdered .
3766 murdering-shook I 've been known to kill obligators , but murdering men just because they 're noble ... '' Marsh shook his head .
3767 necessitates-separating They protect their families by separating them from underground activities , but this necessitates spending large periods of time apart . ''
3768 need-went I may not need all of this ... but , if I do , I 'm going to be glad I went to the trouble .
3769 needed-survive Reen had always told her that a girl needed to be tough -- tougher , even , than a man -- if she wanted to survive .
3770 negotiated-understand ` In the same way that when Ronald Reagan and others negotiated arms agreement with the Soviet Union , you had to recognize , yes , this is an evil , terrible system , but within it are people with specific historic ideas and memories , and we have to be able to understand those things and potentially try to make some connection .
3771 nodded-objected None of the women objected ; in fact , a few of them even nodded respectfully toward her .
3772 nodded-paying Vin nodded , but she was n't paying much attention to Dox .
3773 nodded-seemed Ham nodded , though his eyes still seemed uncertain .
3774 nodded-shook Vin nodded in agreement , but Kelsier just shook his head .
3775 nodded-shrugged Kurdon shrugged , but nodded .
3776 nodded-taste Dockson nodded in agreement , but Vin did n't taste her own drink .
3777 nodded-worried Kelsier nodded as a servant brought him a warm , damp cloth to clean his face and arms -- though Kelsier was n't certain if the servants were worried about his comfort or the ash he might get on the furniture .
3778 notice-stack He did n't appear to notice that she 'd moved the `` weather '' book , but he did carefully slide it into the middle of the stack .
3779 noticed-was He was smaller than the rest , but he had the simple earnestness that Kelsier had noticed earlier .
3780 nudged-tumble Consequently , her Push nudged her to the side even farther , and she began to tumble through the air .
3781 obliged-pressing Publicly committing to an American ground presence this far in advance poses hazards : Such a candidate , if elected , would become a war president immediately upon taking office in January 2017 and would be obliged to face the challenges of the Islamic State assuming the fight were still underway even if other pressing matters emerged , like the economy or a nuclear Iran.Mr .
3782 obscured-preferred The Nelazan , however , were not impressed , and preferred to worship the quiet Trell , who watched over them even when Nalt obscured the sky . ''
3783 obscured-sounding With a clean bill of health , and a new pair of fashionable glasses , he spent considerable time this campaign traveling abroad and sounding out a more foreign policy-heavy message in the lead-up to this race , hoping to receive a fresh look from Republican voters.But Mr. Perry won little support in early polls , obscured by a new generation of conservatives , including the junior senator from Texas , Ted Cruz.He won plaudits for a speech urging Republicans to more aggressively reach out to African-Americans , yet earned the most coverage when he went after Mr. Trump in the weeks after the real estate mogul belittled Senator John McCain 's Vietnam war record .
3784 occurred-proved ` The governor should step up and face the serious cases of corruption that have occurred under her watch , ' said the state 's Democratic Party chairwoman , Deb Haaland , although none of the recent cases have been proved in court .
3785 offended-sazed Sazed , however , did n't seem offended -- he never seemed to get angry about anything .
3786 offered-pledged Legislators did not take action on the minimum wage , but House Speaker Tina Kotek , D-Portland , has pledged to push for an increase to $ 13.50 in the 2016 session.But consider this : Amazon offered employees sick leave , as well as vacation time .
3787 offered-s Her main rival , Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders , has said the U.S. needs to be part of the global response to the crisis but has not offered a specific number.O ` Malley , a top fundraiser during Obama 's re-election campaign , has struggled against Clinton and Sanders .
3788 offered-s It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
3789 offered-s It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
3790 offered-s It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
3791 offered-surrender ` Mr. Harris recalled a ` largely unsuccessful ' texting campaign for Bob McDonnell during his winning race for governor of Virginia in 2009 , when voters refused to surrender their cellphone numbers even after they were offered free tickets to a Washington Redskins game.But since then , as social-media use has exploded , people 's attitudes toward text messages have shifted .
3792 omitted-regarding Sazed 's lessons might have omitted dancing , but they had been quite extensive regarding dining etiquette , for which Vin was grateful .
3793 opened-pushed He opened his mouth to speak , but she pushed against him again , desperately using up her last pinch of Luck .
3794 opening-reminds Eleven candidates are opening the debate with introductions.Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee took a shot at Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton and her use of a private email server while secretary of state.Former neurosurgeon Ben Carson says he 's in the race because he 's concerned about the future for America 's children.Front-runner Donald Trump reminds the crowd he 's `` made billions and billions of dollars . ''
3795 oppose-pit More significantly , a majority of the most prominent candidates - Marco Rubio , Scott Walker , Ted Cruz , Ben Carson , Rand Paul and Mike Huckabee , for example - have said at one time or another that they oppose abortion even in the case of rape or incest , a view rejected by all previous party standard-bearers from George H. W. Bush to Mitt Romney.In doing so , these six candidates not only pit themselves against a decisive majority of the electorate , but against a majority of Republican voters.A 2011 Gallup survey found that 59 percent of self-identified anti-abortion Republican-leaning voters agreed that abortion should be legal ` when the pregnancy has been caused by rape or incest . '
3796 opposed-wanted ` You wanted it , and you did n't get it because I was opposed , ' Mr. Bush shot back .
3797 opposes-voted `` Eldridge stopped short of saying whether he would have voted for the president 's health overhaul , but said he opposes attempts to repeal the law and that he would push to improve it .
3798 ordered-was He was already well known because of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee 's stand against the United States ' involvement in the Vietnam War.That touched off a national drama that ended in 1966 when the Supreme Court , in a unanimous decision , ordered the State Assembly to seat him , saying it had denied him freedom of speech.As a lawmaker , he sponsored bills to establish a sickle cell anemia testing program and to provide low-interest home loans to low-income Georgians .
3799 ordered-was Kelsier also ordered her to drink a ridiculous amount of water , though she was n't that thirsty .
3800 ordered-was He 's linking Jeb Bush to the war , which was ordered by his brother , then-President George W. Bush.Trump says , `` Your brother and your brother 's administration gave us Barack Obama because it was such a disaster in the last three months .
3801 ordered-was He was already well known because of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee 's stand against the United States ' involvement in the Vietnam War.That touched off a national drama that ended in 1966 when the Supreme Court , in a unanimous decision , ordered the State Assembly to seat him , saying it had denied him freedom of speech.As a lawmaker , he sponsored bills to establish a sickle cell anemia testing program and to provide low-interest home loans to low-income Georgians .
3802 ordered-was Kelsier also ordered her to drink a ridiculous amount of water , though she was n't that thirsty .
3803 ordered-was He 's linking Jeb Bush to the war , which was ordered by his brother , then-President George W. Bush.Trump says , `` Your brother and your brother 's administration gave us Barack Obama because it was such a disaster in the last three months .
3804 organizes-unseat In what he says is his effort to restore ` our Christian heritage , ' Mr. Lane 's American Renewal Project has already shown its influence in Iowa by helping to unseat three State Supreme Court justices who voted to allow same-sex marriage.But Mr. Lane 's ambitions are national - he focused on battleground states in 2014 and has built an email list of 100,000 pastors around the country.His goal now is to get 1,000 pastors to run for public office , and their potential support has drawn a virtual pilgrimage of conservative candidates eager to join the tours Mr. Lane organizes to Israel and to his ` Pastors and Pews ' events . '
3805 outfit-was Kelsier 's outfit , however , was clean .
3806 outlined-see With his Inquisitor 's eyes , however , Kar could see the ironlines of these things -- the blue threads were fine , nearly invisible , but they outlined the world for him .
3807 overlapping-sewn They were sewn together at the shoulders and across the chest , but mostly they hung separate from one another , like overlapping streamers .
3808 overpartied-realize You may not realize this yet , but it 's not that hard to get overpartied .
3809 overpowering-was His Soothing was so strong that she could n't even feel terror -- all she felt was the deep , overpowering , horrible sorrow .
3810 overran-squeeze The boy overran the pass , and the ball collided with his nose.The dropped ball unleashed a flurry of commentary about Mr. Rubio 's throwing form , and even some suggestions that he send a Hail Mary pass in Mrs. Clinton 's direction.The child recovered from the incident , and the Rubio campaign , always happy to make lemonade from a lemon , managed to squeeze a fund-raising opportunity out of it .
3811 oversaw-redelineating Yet today , nearly the same Election Commission that oversaw the voting in 2013 - all but two of its seven members remain - is in charge of redelineating voting districts again .
3812 overturned-wade That 's clearly the case with abortion ; most Americans , even if they support some limits on access to abortion , do n't want to see Roe v. Wade overturned.Citizens United makes a fascinating litmus test because a majority of Americans - Republicans as well as Democrats - actually do want to see it overturned .
3813 owns-rent Technically , the Lord Ruler owns the skaa , but the noblemen rent them , and are allowed to kill as many as they want .
3814 packed-were The structures were packed closely together , making them seem squat despite the fact that they were generally three stories high .
3815 paid-plunged At Morehouse College , he plunged into extracurricular activities but paid less attention to his studies .
3816 paid-seemed Her attendance seemed important to him , but he rarely paid much attention to her other than to ask how her day had been .
3817 paint-recreating Rick Santorum , the former Pennsylvania senator , who has been canvassing Iowa in hopes of recreating his connection with caucusgoers there , tried nonetheless to paint himself as an outsider who could bring change to Washington.The winner was most likely a draw between Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina .
3818 paled-rise She tried to rise , but one of the shafts must have done some serious damage to her heart , for her face paled .
3819 participate-perriello Kabila , who has been in power since 2001 , has remained quiet about his future in politics , but Congo has never had a peaceful transfer of power in its 55 years of independence.The new U.S. special envoy to the Great Lakes , Thomas Perriello , met with Kabila on Wednesday before holding his first press conference there.The election process is as important as election day and `` many partners must be involved in ensuring a truly free and transparent elections cycle here , '' he said.Tensions have been high between the president and opposition parties , who fear election delays could keep Kabila in office beyond constitutional limits.Kabila called for a dialogue in June but opposition parties refused to participate without international mediation .
3820 participated-remained It remained powerful through the sheer force of fortune ; though it participated in some contracts , it did n't rely on them like other houses .
3821 pass-prepared She did , however , pick at the food -- her instincts would n't let her pass up a free meal , even if it was prepared by unfamiliar hands .
3822 passed-passing The passing whip of a taskmaster would force them into dedicated motion for a few moments , but as soon as the taskmaster passed , they would return to their languor .
3823 passed-seemed He had seemed a bit uncomfortable around her at the beginning of the conversation , but that had passed quickly .
3824 passed-seen She had the feeling that the murals were rarely seen , even by those who often passed through the chambers .
3825 paused-rubbed She paused , however , noting just how much makeup she had rubbed across it .
3826 paused-saw She paused , however , when she saw something sitting on a small desk beside the wall .
3827 paused-sazed She paused in the entryway , however , Sazed waiting patiently behind her .
3828 paused-sazed Vin paused , frowning slightly , but Sazed just smiled .
3829 pay-sneak Not much time if he had to sneak out and back , but plenty of time for a pair of stealthy Mistborn to pay him a quick visit .
3830 paying-required He had already stopped paying staff and was uncertain whether he would even have the money to pay the state filing fees required in the coming months to be on the ballot next year , they said .
3831 pays-take You should probably take off your cloak -- the people here are loyal to us , but it always pays to be careful . ''
3832 peeling-reading ` Paul - who has frequently visited black colleges and spoken out against discriminatory patterns in policing and sentencing - may have been particularly committed to peeling away some of the core Democratic electorate , but other Republicans are clearly reading the same voting totals .
3833 performing-seemed He seemed so ... dignified , even while performing such a menial task .
3834 picked-read `` He 's known to read a lot , '' Vin continued , `` but some of these books ... well , when he was gone , I picked through them . ''
3835 picked-was It was faint , but her tin-ears picked it out behind her .
3836 piercing-pointing Blue lines appeared pointing to the Lord Ruler 's rings and bracelets -- all of them but the ones on his upper arms , piercing his skin .
3837 pin-speak Many speak of there being around twenty Inquisitors in the empire , but I never was able to pin anyone down on a hard number . ''
3838 plan-withdraw Their allies would plan for it , and might even begin to withdraw themselves .
3839 play-restore `` But , if we play this right , we might be able to force the Lord Ruler to send the palace guard -- maybe even the Inquisitors -- into the city to restore order .
3840 please-told `` We are n't like other crews you 've known -- we work as we please , not because we are told to .
3841 plummet-waited Vin waited for a moment , but he did n't plummet back down to his doom .
3842 pointed-tell It was hard to tell in the night , but it seemed that the four bars made a line that pointed directly toward Luthadel .
3843 pointed-tell He pointed at the courtyard with its red fountains -- a visible sign of death for the thousands of skaa too far away to even tell what was happening .
3844 poised-presides The crisis in Greece has faded , for now at least.But on Thursday , when Mr. Draghi presides at a regularly scheduled meeting of the central bank 's Governing Council , he will need to address the welter of new and in some cases unexpected threats from around the globe , which could create pressure for yet more stimulus spending.A slowdown in the economy of China and other emerging markets has prompted wild swings in stock prices , although markets were relatively calm on Wednesday.The Federal Reserve is poised to raise interest rates in the United States as early as this month , possibly causing borrowing costs to rise in the eurozone before growth is strong enough.Some economists are even warning again about the eurozone 's lapsing into deflation , a broad decline in prices that is considered poisonous to growth and employment.An influx of refugees into Europe from Syria and other conflict zones , while outside the purview of monetary policy , adds to the uncertainty .
3845 policing-spent Mr. Biden , in contrast , stressed the success of the bill 's community policing measures , which he said had achieved their goals before funding was cut.And in an interview with Time magazine in February 2014 , he said , ' I am not only the guy who did the crime bill and the drug czar , but I 'm also the guy who spent years when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee trying to change drug policy relative to cocaine , for example , crack and powder .
3846 polluting-unfold If the plan survives legal challenges , it could lead to the closing of hundreds of polluting coal-fired power plants , freeze future construction of such plants and lead to an explosion in production of wind and solar energy.Most of those changes , however , would unfold under the next president : states would not submit final plans detailing how they would comply with the rules until 2018 .
3847 portraying-welcomed Walls often were decorated with murals portraying the martyrs of the war , in which 400,000 young Iranian men were killed.Though billboard art has largely moved on to commercial themes , the new offerings have been widely and enthusiastically welcomed .
3848 possessed-suspected Partially because they were required , partially because they would n't have to work while they watched , and partially -- Vin suspected -- because they had the same morbid curiosity that all men possessed .
3849 pour-won After the debate , the audience underwent a reversal : 59 percent were now convinced that the proper course of action was to contain ISIS rather than to pour blood and treasure into an attempt to destroy it.But Fontaine was not won over . ''
3850 poured-struggled ` Mr. Perry 's decision to suspend his campaign roiled the Texas donor world on Friday , setting off a race to win the allegiance of Mr. Perry 's wealthiest supporters , who poured more than $ 17 million into his super PAC even while his campaign struggled to raise traditional contributions .
3851 praised-questioned Mr. Rangel praised the younger lawmaker for his work on police reform , but questioned whether Mr. Jeffries could be a viable candidate for mayor as early as 2017 .
3852 praises-supported `` Cruz praises Trump for his focus on immigration , though suggests he was there first , back when all his rivals `` supported amnesty . ''
3853 prattling-presenting `` Elend 's prattling about class imbalance seems like silliness to me , but I can see the importance of presenting a unified front before the Lord Ruler . ''
3854 prepares-raised It was not raised in a single presidential debate.But as Mr. Obama prepares to leave office , his own aggressive actions on climate change have thrust the issue into the 2016 campaign .
3855 preparing-run I have no indication Secretary Kerry would ever run again , but I do n't think anyone else has more experience in preparing and running for the presidency than Kerry . '
3856 pressed-qualify Greece should now qualify because it has agreed to conditions demanded by other eurozone countries in return for as much as $ 86 billion in additional aid.If so , Greece 's hard-pressed commercial banks would be among the main beneficiaries because they have large holdings of their own government 's debt .
3857 pressed-were The tablecloths were even whiter , and pressed even flatter , than usual .
3858 pretending-sazed Perhaps if his wife were still alive , she could have taught Vin things about pretending to be a noblewoman that even Sazed did n't know .
3859 prevail-share ` The president said he knows he is going to have a fight on his hands with Mr. Netanyahu and those in Congress who share the prime minister 's views , but he seemed confident that in the end he would prevail.Mr .
3860 produce-were As a general rule , you should trust him over me on political analysis.Eventually , the Democrats would produce a nominee , even if it were not Mrs. Clinton .
3861 produced-staked The battle for the Republican presidential nomination has produced an unexpectedly intense burst of attacks on women 's reproductive rights , not only on the right to abortion , but also by implication on some of the most commonly used methods of contraception.The shift to an aggressively conservative posture stands in direct contrast to the party 's previous five presidential nominees , all of whom sought during their campaigns to play down social issues.In the current Republican presidential contest , 16 candidates have staked out positions against abortion ; the exception is George Pataki , former governor of New York , who is pro-choice .
3862 progressed-worried The smell grew less noticeable as the morning progressed , but it still worried her .
3863 progresses-tracking At the same time , Rubio and Carson have endorsed the use of IUDs and the morning after pill despite the view prevalent in the anti-abortion community that these contraceptive devices are abortifacients.It will be interesting to track their responses when challenged by social conservatives as the campaign progresses.Even more interesting will be tracking the voting intentions of women as Nov. 8 , 2016 , approaches .
3864 promise-reestablish `` I ca n't promise anything , but I should be able to reestablish some connections .
3865 promised-were `` Some were strong through honest faith , others because of the hope they promised .
3866 promoted-s I trust Demoux -- that 's why I promoted him -- but he 's not that great a warrior .
3867 proposed-raising Republicans in the House and Senate armed services committees have now proposed budgets consistent with the $ 499 billion in the 2011 budget agreement but suggested raising the O.C.O. account from Mr. Obama 's $ 51 billion to around $ 90 billion.The nation 's security needs are not static .
3868 protect-set They set it back 35 years in one night because the police were n't allowed to protect people .
3869 proved-taught Kredik Shaw had taught her that she was n't invincible -- but Kelsier 's survival with barely a scratch proved that it was possible to be much better than she was .
3870 provide-stored `` It can provide some of the same things we get from pewter and tin -- strength , endurance , eyesight -- but each attribute has to be stored separately .
3871 provided-said ` It was amazing to see the kind of leadership you provided for this country in what could have been a negative not just for you all , but for this country , ' Mr. Walker said of the peaceful and discerning responses to the massacre .
3872 publicized-seized ` If Trump is n't offering workable solutions but he is identifying problems that others have ignored , the hope is some more policy-focused , more governance-focused competitor will make use of the opportunity that Trump has publicized , ' Mr. Frum said.In an analogy that wo n't make anyone very comfortable , he said Mr. Trump could be useful in the same way George Wallace was in 1968 : ` Wallace talked about a lot of issues , many of them pretty dismaying , but he also seized on the crime issue .
3873 pull-traveling It had been hard work -- most noblemen used skaa instead of horses to pull the boats along the towpath -- but there had been a certain freedom to knowing that she was traveling at all , for most skaa , even skaa thieves , never left their plantation or town .
3874 pulled-pushing As soon as the Inquisitor stopped Pushing , however , Kelsier Pulled his weapons back .
3875 pulled-remained The ominous vehicle pulled to a stop in the exact center of the square , but the Lord Ruler himself remained inside .
3876 pulling-scrambled An unenhanced Vin would have had trouble pulling herself up onto the wall , but Vin the Allomancer easily scrambled over the side .
3877 pulling-yanked It resisted at first , pulling him against the wall , but he burned pewter and yanked harder .
3878 purchase-sazed Sazed claimed he would n't be happy until her hair was at least shoulder-length , but he had still suggested that she purchase the broochlike barrettes and put them just above each ear .
3879 purring-s `` It 's amazing the creatures can even survive as thieves , '' said Carlee , Tyden 's young wife , in her normal purring voice .
3880 pursue-reduce ` Mrs. Clinton has not laid out a specific climate change policy that she might pursue as president , but she has enthusiastically supported efforts to reduce carbon pollution - including Mr. Obama 's regulations .
3881 push-throwing It tried to Push itself upward , but Kelsier shot several larger pieces of metal over the creature 's head , and it had to Push against them , throwing off its jump .
3882 pushed-shot He shot a couple of coins back at her , but she Pushed them away with a dismissive thought .
3883 pushed-slash Vin Pushed off even as she felt the Inquisitor slash the air beside her .
3884 pushed-swamp ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
3885 pushed-was ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
3886 pushed-was ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
3887 pushed-was She Pushed reflexively with her steel , but her trajectory was off ; she had fallen to the side of the ingot , not directly toward it .
3888 pushed-was She Pushed against it , but the Inquisitor was too strong .
3889 pushed-was The man cried out as Vin Pushed against his breastplate as well -- but he was far heavier than she , and she was thrown backward .
3890 pushed-was The man cried out as Vin Pushed against his breastplate as well -- but he was far heavier than she , and she was thrown backward .
3891 pushing-recover You 'll recover -- you 'll even get better at pushing yourself like this -- but right now you just have to keep burning the pewter and stay awake .
3892 radiating-retracted ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
3893 ramming-was She tried ramming her head back against Kar 's , but he was ready for this .
3894 ran-smiling A line of blood ran down the creature 's face , across its eye tattoos , but it looked up , smiling .
3895 ran-surged Her ratings surged during the Monica Lewinsky scandal , but returned to the mid-40s once she ran for Senate , and remained there through her 2008 presidential campaign .
3896 ranked-s He 's the most important of the Lord Ruler 's obligators -- technically , he 's even higher ranked than the Inquisitors . ''
3897 ranked-s He 's the most important of the Lord Ruler 's obligators -- technically , he 's even higher ranked than the Inquisitors . ''
3898 ranked-s He 's the most important of the Lord Ruler 's obligators -- technically , he 's even higher ranked than the Inquisitors . ''
3899 ranked-was They were n't extensive -- he was playing a low-ranked obligator -- but the pattern was unmistakable .
3900 re-read Allomancy ca n't let you read minds or even emotions -- in a way , you 're as blind as anyone else .
3901 re-sent You know you 're in trouble when the Germans tell you that you 're too militaristic.The Saudis thought Saddam was a monster , but , according to a Saudi official , they sent top emissaries to urge W. against war .
3902 re-sent You know you 're in trouble when the Germans tell you that you 're too militaristic.The Saudis thought Saddam was a monster , but , according to a Saudi official , they sent top emissaries to urge W. against war .
3903 re-sent The Valtroux Garrison sent five thousand soldiers , but we 're not going to leave it to them .
3904 re-starting The men are starting to feel like soldiers , but ... Well , they 're skaa .
3905 re-succeed You 're a talented Allomancer , but you 'll need more than Steelpushes to succeed against the nobility .
3906 re-supposed And our narrative of what 's supposed to happen in these places has never been right , because they 're at different stages of development and have different politics .
3907 reach-swaying It might be harder for the party to reach that point this year , with such a large field , but the field will eventually narrow.In both those elections , the establishment prevailed by swaying voters in blue and purple states .
3908 react-strikes ` It strikes me that the one party that we have heard the least from , but in the end could count the most , is the Iranian people and how they ultimately react to this opening of Iran to the world as a result of this deal .
3909 read-settled She settled back in her chair , holding up the book , but she did n't read any more .
3910 read-shown ` You did n't read things like this from political scientists or data journalists two months ago , but Mr. Trump has since shown himself to be a different kind of challenger than ones from the recent past .
3911 realize-sensed Many do not realize that it is sentient , but I have sensed its mind , such that it is , the few times I have confronted it directly .
3912 realize-united They do , and they did under decades-old Supreme Court precedent before Citizens United , although many of the decision 's critics do n't seem to realize that fact .
3913 realized-used She 'd never used her Luck in such a way ; she had n't even realized that she could .
3914 realized-was She soon realized , however , that the newcomer was n't a nobleman , but a Terrisman steward .
3915 realized-was He knew I was lying to him , but I do n't think he realized that I was skaa .
3916 reassigned-thwarted And the National Counterterrorism Center has diverted analysts working on longer-term extremist threats to focus on the Islamic State , also called ISIS or ISIL , intelligence officials said.In June , the F.B.I. had so many people under surveillance in terrorism-related investigations - mostly related to the Islamic State - that supervisors reassigned criminal squads to monitor terrorism suspects.For all the concern , there have been no Qaeda attacks in the United States in 14 years , though some were thwarted or fell apart .
3917 rebased-threatened The Nationalists rebased in Taiwan , which China says must eventually be unified with the mainland , although it has not openly threatened Taiwan since 2005 .
3918 rebound-slipping His presidency appeared to be quickly slipping into lame-duck territory last year , but began to rebound after Democrats ' defeats in the midterm election and picked up momentum this summer.Summer has previously been Obama 's cruelest season : the hostile health care town halls in 2009 , the debt ceiling crisis in 2011 , the president 's waffling on Syria 's chemical weapons use in 2013 .
3919 recognize-sazed She did , fortunately , recognize some of the scenes -- mostly because of Sazed 's teachings .
3920 recognize-seen He had only seen Camon briefly , but he thought that he 'd recognize the man .
3921 recognizing-suggest Recognizing that more government guidance does not necessarily mean greater academic achievement , Mr. Bush said that simpler standards that focus on critical thinking are necessary.However , Mr. Bush did not suggest doing away with testing students .
3922 recover-using According to employees , though , using all of that sick leave and vacation time - even for cancer treatments or to recover from a miscarriage - could limit their careers .
3923 reen-remember `` I do n't remember it , '' she said , `` but Reen said that he came home one day and found my mother covered in blood .
3924 referring-widened ` The mayor was referring to Mr. Trump 's stance on immigration , but he widened his criticism to take in the developer 's disparaging comments about women , Mexican-Americans , and the worthiness of Senator John McCain 's war service .
3925 refuse-sign Bush said he supports defending the rights of religious people to refuse to endorse gay marriage , but he said someone else in Davis ' office should sign the certificates since the Supreme Court ruling is the law of the land .
3926 regard-sitting A group of men sitting at a crude table , however , continued to regard Kelsier with dissatisfied expressions .
3927 regarded-scowling He regarded the surroundings with a look of disapproval , but he was nowhere near as openly hostile as Clubs , who still sat on the other side of the room scowling at anyone who looked in his direction .
3928 relish-smiled Kelsier said that he smiled so much because he felt he needed to take what joy he could in the world -- to relish the moments of happiness that seemed so infrequent in the Final Empire .
3929 relocated-sting ` Your wallet is the best ballot , ' said Barrett Silver , who signed the parent petition urging the prom to be relocated.Officials at Horace Greeley said that they were open to moving the prom , which takes place next spring , but that the decision would ultimately be left to the students , who finance and organize the event.The business losses from moving the 300-person prom is unlikely to sting Mr. Trump , who has absorbed millions of dollars in severed corporate ventures since he started his presidential campaign in June .
3930 rely-shook She shook her head at the foolish move , but it was simply a sign of how much she 'd come to rely on her Allomancy .
3931 rely-want People serve on my crews because they want to , and I 'm effective because they can rely on one another .
3932 relying-showed And circumstances are anything but optimal for him : He faces a wide field of candidates , including several who are better financed and beloved by mainstream donors Jeb Bush , hold greater appeal to conservative voters who dominate the primary process Scott Walker , are agile public speakers with persuasive biographies Mr. Rubio , or are better liked by Republican voters all of the above.At his announcement , Mr. Christie sought political rebirth , as he has before , by relying on his powers as a narrator , and mythologizer , of his own story.Running for president is a new and bigger stage , though , and both Mr. Christie 's stagecraft and his oratory showed room for improvement .
3933 remain-sang His profile as an Obama antagonist is likely to keep growing , as the White House 's nuclear talks with Iran remain in the spotlight this summer.But on a recent Friday in his district in Suffolk County , Mr. Zeldin cut a less provocative figure as he stood , hands clasped across his waist and swaying almost imperceptibly , as a group of elderly people sang ` God Bless America ' at a country club .
3934 remained-touch He raised a hand as if to touch the skinless body , but remained frozen there , stunned .
3935 remained-waiting He remained , however , as if waiting for something .
3936 remaining-slamming The hazekiller prepared to block Kelsier 's remaining dagger , but Kelsier raised his other hand instead , slamming the coin pouch into the man 's shield .
3937 removed-was He was a young man , in an imperial uniform , though he had removed the jacket to make himself look less obtrusive .
3938 rendered-washing With proper washing , and some expensive soaps , even a white garment could be rendered clean of ash .
3939 reply-shut Vin opened her mouth to reply , but something about Marsh 's expression made her shut it again .
3940 requested-rolled Kelsier rolled his eyes , but did as requested , shaking the vial , then downing half of its contents .
3941 required-speaking But broadly speaking we do n't know how secure corporate Canada is because companies are n't required to report security breaches .
3942 requires-sounds It 's not as easy as it sounds -- even something as simple as Pushing yourself up onto a rooftop requires an understanding of weight , balance , and trajectory .
3943 resembled-shelved HSINCHU , Taiwan - Taiwan 's military blasted shells into the ocean Thursday , one in a series of exercises this week to simulate attacks by political rival China after Beijing staged what appeared to be a mock strike against the presidential office in Taipei.The exercises , larger this year than in the past , follow televised images from China on July 22 depicting a staged ground troop attack on a red tower and attached low-rises that resembled Taiwan 's presidential compound.China is Taiwan 's only major potential military threat , though the two sides have shelved political differences since 2008 .
3944 reserved-weathered ` Unlike some people who offer themselves for president in 2016 , you wo n't have to wonder whether I can do it or not , ' he said , invoking the ` economic calamity ' he said he inherited in 2010 and the ` unprecedented natural disaster , ' Hurricane Sandy , that he weathered as governor.But he reserved his deepest disdain for Congress and for the president 's stewardship of foreign affairs , and extended that critique to President Obama 's former secretary of state .
3945 resisted-sensing Vin resisted nonetheless , sensing the unfamiliar metal reserve within her .
3946 resolved-tying ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3947 retire-talk I know cities where police are afraid to even talk to people because they want to be able to retire and have their pension , ' he declared in Nashville on Aug. 29 .
3948 review-sever This was not Mr. de Blasio 's first attack on Mr. Trump : In July , he vowed to review city contracts with Trump-affiliated companies , although City Hall officials later conceded they may not have legal standing to sever ties .
3949 revitalizing-was In a statement , the campaign of Mr. O'Malley , a former governor of Maryland and an occasional Uber passenger , said he was ` optimistic about companies like Uber because of their role in revitalizing cities across the country .
3950 rimmed-splashed It was also rimmed by beggars , but no fine fountain splashed the center of this intersection , nor did the corners contain wells to draw traffic .
3951 ripped-struggling ` Another struggling candidate , former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida , who has been Mr. Trump 's chief target , was initially slow to take him on , but then ripped into him for suggesting that Mr. Bush would be a puppet of his major donors .
3952 risen-shows Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows , even those on which he did not appear.Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate - Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio - were both asked about Mr. Trump.Mr .
3953 rising-thrown He did feel that there was a tension rising between the houses ; though the balls continued , there were more and more absences as people did n't attend parties thrown by their political rivals .
3954 risked-was I risked , and I lost , but the risk was still worth it .
3955 rocked-support Russo said it 's amusing to see Reagan , `` who really rocked the boat '' in 1976 , become `` the lodestar even for Republicans who always support the establishment .
3956 rooting-unlock ` I 'm rooting for Donald Trump because he could unlock the potential of America 's Latino electorate.Hispanics , among the fastest-growing of all segments of eligible voters , played a crucial role in President Obama 's two elections .
3957 rose-was Tall and blocky , the building had a massive rose window in the front , though the glass was dark from the outside .
3958 rose-was The rose window was enormous , but it was mostly glass .
3959 rose-was Tall and blocky , the building had a massive rose window in the front , though the glass was dark from the outside .
3960 rose-was The rose window was enormous , but it was mostly glass .
3961 rotting-was They were n't rotting yet -- the attack had happened only that morning -- but there was still a smell of death about the room .
3962 rubbed-were The blackish gray ash still showed up a bit against the dark fabric , and the fibers were rough where she 'd rubbed against stone , but both were barely noticeable .
3963 ruin-spark A spark of burned pewter , however , made the climb effortless enough that she did n't sweat and ruin her makeup .
3964 run-says Bush , whose campaign this summer unsuccessfully pushed for Nevada to switch from a caucus system to a primary and who recently chose leaders to run campaign operations in all of the state 's counties , will hold a rally in Reno and a town-hall-style event in Las Vegas later in the day.And Rick Santorum , who won the Iowa caucuses in 2012 , but whose poll numbers left him out of the top 10 for last week 's Republican debate , continues a sustained trip in the state , all part of his goal , his campaign says , ` to reach all 99 Iowa counties .
3965 run-says In what he says is his effort to restore ` our Christian heritage , ' Mr. Lane 's American Renewal Project has already shown its influence in Iowa by helping to unseat three State Supreme Court justices who voted to allow same-sex marriage.But Mr. Lane 's ambitions are national - he focused on battleground states in 2014 and has built an email list of 100,000 pastors around the country.His goal now is to get 1,000 pastors to run for public office , and their potential support has drawn a virtual pilgrimage of conservative candidates eager to join the tours Mr. Lane organizes to Israel and to his ` Pastors and Pews ' events . '
3966 run-says Mr. Kerry has said recently that he has no plans to run for president , but he also said in February that ` nobody ever says never .
3967 rushing-weaving They walked for a short time longer , weaving their way back toward the building , but not rushing the walk .
3968 s-said How prominent should Mr. Obama seek to be , especially in the first few years?One top aide said Mr. Obama respected Mr. Bush 's decision to limit his time in public after leaving office , but also admired Mr. Clinton 's aggressive use of the spotlight to press his agenda .
3969 s-said Though a few military and police recruiters interviewed at posts around Kabul said they ultimately came up short of their increased goals , most described continued success at bringing in new soldiers and police officers.A spokesman for the Afghan Defense Ministry , Dawlat Waziri , insisted that desertions remained rare and that there had been no effort to ban leaves or to stop rotations away from the front to cut down on the number of people going absent without leave.But interviews with soldiers and police officers repeatedly countered the government 's claims .
3970 s-said ` Smarter unions and smarter Democrats are going to try to figure out a 21st-century set of policies to make sure that workers who are actually creating wealth get to share in it , ' said David Rolf , the president of the Service Employees International Union Local 775 in the Northwest.Interviews with several Uber drivers here suggest they are eager for greater protections , even as they celebrate the company 's flexible hours .
3971 s-said ` As inappropriate as some of his comments are , I think it 's stuff that a lot of people are thinking but afraid to say , ' she said .
3972 s-said ` He does n't need anybody 's money , ' said Maureen Colcord , 60 , a clinical dietitian from Derry.Even as dozens of national and state polls have charted Mr. Trump 's steady ascent , Republican campaigns have taken solace in their conviction that those surveys are flawed and misleading .
3973 s-said ` He 's made so many flubs , I do n't even understand it , ' Mr. Trump said of Mr. Bush.Mr .
3974 s-said ` If party leaders see a scenario next winter where Bernie Sanders has a real chance at the Democratic nomination , I think there 's no question that leaders will reach out to Vice President Biden or Secretary of State Kerry or even Gore about entering the primaries , ' said Garnet F. Coleman , a Texas state lawmaker and Democratic national committeeman.Even if none of those Democrats were to announce candidacies this fall , some party officials and strategists suggested that Mr. Biden could be laying the groundwork for an 11th-hour rescue mission during the winter primaries if Mrs. Clinton 's campaign began to implode .
3975 s-said ` As Democratic Party officials see Bernie Sanders 's mounting strength with voters , I think they will begin to better understand that he will not only be a strong nominee who can help Democrats all across the country win elections , but he actually will be the white knight if they need one , ' said Mr. Devine , who was a past adviser to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore .
3976 s-said More important , Republicans do not want to be targeted by conservative outside groups like Americans for Prosperity , the political advocacy group funded by the libertarian billionaires Charles and David Koch.Tim Phillips , the president of Americans for Prosperity , has said that his group intends to aggressively attack any Republican candidate in the 2016 primaries who endorses carbon regulations.But some Republican strategists worry that the position on climate change that could help win them their party 's nomination could hurt them in a general election , particularly in a contest with a larger number of young and minority voters .
3977 s-said Tom Jensen , the director of Public Policy Polling , said he added Deez Nuts to statewide survey three weeks ago because ` the name makes people laugh , and it 's a long presidential election . ''
3978 s-said And last year , when the government declassified documents about an aborted challenge to the program by a phone company in late 2009 , it redacted the firm 's name , but officials said it was Sprint.The Justice Department letter confirms that both of those companies have been participants.But the document also contained a surprise .
3979 s-said ` Democracy is always healthier whenever there 's a robust challenge and a battle of ideas , ' Mr. Jeffries said , adding , ` He should not get a free pass , but whether that means a Democratic primary challenge or a real race in the general election is something that 's above my pay grade .
3980 s-said ` This is personal , and that 's the big difference between Spanish-language and mainstream media , because he 's talking about our parents , our friends , our kids and our babies , ' Mr. Ramos said in a telephone interview.Mr .
3981 s-said Ramos , who has been called the Walter Cronkite of Latino America for the tremendous influence he holds with Hispanic viewers , said that he could not recall Spanish-language news media covering a story as aggressively as it has Mr. Trump 's candidacy.And though cable news and the Sunday morning news shows have blanketed their political coverage with stories about many aspects of Mr. Trump 's improbable campaign , the focus of Spanish-language news programs has been almost exclusively on Mr. Trump 's controversial stance on immigration.About 58 percent of all mentions of Mr. Trump in mainstream news media - broadcast , cable , radio and online outlets - in the past month have focused on immigration , while on Spanish-language news programs , the proportion is almost 80 percent , according to an analysis by Two .42 .
3982 s-said Ramos , who has been called the Walter Cronkite of Latino America for the tremendous influence he holds with Hispanic viewers , said that he could not recall Spanish-language news media covering a story as aggressively as it has Mr. Trump 's candidacy.And though cable news and the Sunday morning news shows have blanketed their political coverage with stories about many aspects of Mr. Trump 's improbable campaign , the focus of Spanish-language news programs has been almost exclusively on Mr. Trump 's controversial stance on immigration.About 58 percent of all mentions of Mr. Trump in mainstream news media - broadcast , cable , radio and online outlets - in the past month have focused on immigration , while on Spanish-language news programs , the proportion is almost 80 percent , according to an analysis by Two .42 .
3983 s-said The Spanish-language news media has also been more critical in its coverage of Mr. Trump 's positions on the issue , with nearly all of it negative in tone.José Díaz-Balart , the main anchor for Telemundo and MSNBC who takes a straight-news approach to his coverage and does not consider himself an advocate , nonetheless said that because of its viewership , Telemundo has delved deeper into the specifics of Mr. Trump 's immigration plan than many English-language outlets and has covered his candidacy with a sense of ` urgency . ''
3984 s-said The Spanish-language news media has also been more critical in its coverage of Mr. Trump 's positions on the issue , with nearly all of it negative in tone.José Díaz-Balart , the main anchor for Telemundo and MSNBC who takes a straight-news approach to his coverage and does not consider himself an advocate , nonetheless said that because of its viewership , Telemundo has delved deeper into the specifics of Mr. Trump 's immigration plan than many English-language outlets and has covered his candidacy with a sense of ` urgency . ''
3985 s-said ` On behalf of 26 million Texans , I want to thank New York for sending us reinforcements , ' Mr. Cruz said at the event , according to a video posted on YouTube.And Mr. Zeldin has taken votes that may prove challenging to defend in his moderate district , recently voting for a spending bill that cut spending for mass transit , and at one point opposing a measure to finance the Department of Homeland Security , because it did not block Mr. Obama 's latest round of executive orders on illegal immigration.Multiple Democrats have already entered the race against him .
3986 s-said ` One senior law enforcement official said that ` if moving quickly stops an attack but hurts our prosecutions , then that 's the price you have to pay to prevent violence . '
3987 s-said ` That 's an example of how this is so different : There could be a plan to do something in the future , but the kind of folks these are , they 're unpredictable , unreliable , ' Mr. Comey said.In response to calls on Twitter by the Islamic State for Americans to stage attacks on the Fourth of July , F.B.I. officials in Washington told agents across the country in the weeks leading up to the holiday to arrest suspects under surveillance if they believed they had enough evidence to bring charges .
3988 s-said Amalgamated , officials at the now-closed super PAC said , was willing to underwrite the loan against the flow of future contributions.Keith Mestrich , a former union official who became the bank 's president last year , said in an interview that he could not discuss specific clients , but that finding creative ways to serve allies effectively was important to the bank 's mission .
3989 s-said Amalgamated , officials at the now-closed super PAC said , was willing to underwrite the loan against the flow of future contributions.Keith Mestrich , a former union official who became the bank 's president last year , said in an interview that he could not discuss specific clients , but that finding creative ways to serve allies effectively was important to the bank 's mission .
3990 s-said ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3991 s-said ` It runs against their overall theme of cleaning up politics in New Mexico , and that can easily become a liability in 2016 , ' said Joe Monahan , whose daily blog is one of the state 's most closely read political journals.Brian Sanderoff , a pollster here , said that tying all the recent scandals to the governor ` is a stretch at this point , ' but that creating the ` perception of blame ' may not be as difficult a task.It is unlikely that any of her home state 's current troubles will have been resolved or forgotten anytime soon.Ms .
3992 s-said `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
3993 s-said `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
3994 s-said ` The guy who 's now got the biggest challenge because of this is Rand Paul , ' said Newt Gingrich , the former Republican House speaker .
3995 s-said ` National security issues have really risen to the top in the presidential race , and that 's because of what we 've seen happening around the world and in part because of the ineffective policies of this administration , ' Ms. Ayotte said.Even last week , as former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida sought to distance himself from his brother 's foreign policy record at a speech in Chicago , he found himself embracing the sort of muscular engagement that had characterized the 43rd president 's administration.The former Florida governor called nonstate terrorist groups such as the Islamic State ` perhaps the greatest security threat that we now face for our own homeland .
3996 s-said `` That 's because you had to be delicate , '' Kelsier said with a devious smile .
3997 s-said He 's probably not even here -- he said he avoided balls when possible .
3998 s-said `` He 's too clever to be insubordinate , '' Ham said , `` but he 's been making trouble quietly .
3999 s-said `` It 's amazing the creatures can even survive as thieves , '' said Carlee , Tyden 's young wife , in her normal purring voice .
4000 s-said `` He 's just complaining because he 's worried about you , '' Kelsier said as Ham returned with the bag .
4001 s-said But he also stressed his willingness to work with union leaders - something he said differentiates him from one of his chief rivals , former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.Bush had said earlier that he 'd love a day when he and American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten `` could hold hands and sing Kumbaya , '' but said `` she 's not going to change . ''
4002 s-said But he also stressed his willingness to work with union leaders - something he said differentiates him from one of his chief rivals , former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.Bush had said earlier that he 'd love a day when he and American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten `` could hold hands and sing Kumbaya , '' but said `` she 's not going to change . ''
4003 s-said ` Unlike some people who offer themselves for president in 2016 , you wo n't have to wonder whether I can do it or not , ' he said , invoking the ` economic calamity ' he said he inherited in 2010 and the ` unprecedented natural disaster , ' Hurricane Sandy , that he weathered as governor.But he reserved his deepest disdain for Congress and for the president 's stewardship of foreign affairs , and extended that critique to President Obama 's former secretary of state .
4004 s-said ` Unlike some people who offer themselves for president in 2016 , you wo n't have to wonder whether I can do it or not , ' he said , invoking the ` economic calamity ' he said he inherited in 2010 and the ` unprecedented natural disaster , ' Hurricane Sandy , that he weathered as governor.But he reserved his deepest disdain for Congress and for the president 's stewardship of foreign affairs , and extended that critique to President Obama 's former secretary of state .
4005 s-said ` Unlike some people who offer themselves for president in 2016 , you wo n't have to wonder whether I can do it or not , ' he said , invoking the ` economic calamity ' he said he inherited in 2010 and the ` unprecedented natural disaster , ' Hurricane Sandy , that he weathered as governor.But he reserved his deepest disdain for Congress and for the president 's stewardship of foreign affairs , and extended that critique to President Obama 's former secretary of state .
4006 s-said ` Unlike some people who offer themselves for president in 2016 , you wo n't have to wonder whether I can do it or not , ' he said , invoking the ` economic calamity ' he said he inherited in 2010 and the ` unprecedented natural disaster , ' Hurricane Sandy , that he weathered as governor.But he reserved his deepest disdain for Congress and for the president 's stewardship of foreign affairs , and extended that critique to President Obama 's former secretary of state .
4007 s-said ` One person can make a difference , ' he said at another.But he also spoke with emotional power , as when he recalled his father 's early job in an ice cream factory in Newark .
4008 s-said ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
4009 s-said ` If you watch the millennial reaction to Hillary , it 's a very different reaction , because a lot of us came up during the '08 elections , ' said Elon James White , an activist and founder of the website ` This Week in Blackness . '
4010 s-said ` When I entered this race , all the political pundits said , ` It 's impossible ; you ca n't do it because you 're not connected with the money , '' ' Mr. Carson said .
4011 s-said ` It 's not an issue anymore because we 've evolved , ' said John Reagan , a Republican state senator in New Hampshire .
4012 s-said During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
4013 s-said ` There 's a genuine fondness for the vice president , but I do n't think there 's a yearning for him to get in the race , ' said former Gov. Jim Hodges of South Carolina.Still , Mrs. Clinton 's closest aides have privately expressed concerns that the campaign would have to spend heavily to defeat Mr. Biden in a primary .
4014 s-said `` Eldridge stopped short of saying whether he would have voted for the president 's health overhaul , but said he opposes attempts to repeal the law and that he would push to improve it .
4015 s-said ` My message is that if you rehire me , it will be someone who gets things done , not someone who tries to score partisan points , ' Mr. Portman said in a telephone interview from Ohio.But the fate of candidates in swing states will be heavily influenced by the fate of each party 's White House candidate.First , there are the additional campaign resources in a presidential year . '
4016 s-said `` Maybe they 'd make a good ticket together , '' she quipped over breakfast at a local market.Other Democrats said they liked Sanders ' calls for free college tuition and better wages for the middle class.But some shared the view of 30-year-old Aaron Singleton of Canton , who said Sanders ' plans seem `` so far-fetched as to how he 's going to implement them . ''
4017 s-shape Scott Walker 's rapid but unsurprising rise to the top of the Republican pack was perhaps the clearest example during the first half of the primary season of the importance of fundamentals : factors that shape the outcome of the race from the very start , like the amount of support from party elites and the potential to build a broad coalition .
4018 s-spend `` It 's hard -- I only get to spend a few months at a time with them -- but it 's better this way .
4019 s-spend ` There 's a genuine fondness for the vice president , but I do n't think there 's a yearning for him to get in the race , ' said former Gov. Jim Hodges of South Carolina.Still , Mrs. Clinton 's closest aides have privately expressed concerns that the campaign would have to spend heavily to defeat Mr. Biden in a primary .
4020 s-squirm Vin tried to squirm , but the Lord Ruler 's Allomancy was so oppressive , the Inquisitor 's hands were so strong .
4021 s-squirm Vin tried to squirm , but the Lord Ruler 's Allomancy was so oppressive , the Inquisitor 's hands were so strong .
4022 s-struggled Her main rival , Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders , has said the U.S. needs to be part of the global response to the crisis but has not offered a specific number.O ` Malley , a top fundraiser during Obama 's re-election campaign , has struggled against Clinton and Sanders .
4023 s-struggled She struggled , but her weak , pewterless body was no match for the Inquisitor 's strength .
4024 s-struggled ` Mr. Perry 's decision to suspend his campaign roiled the Texas donor world on Friday , setting off a race to win the allegiance of Mr. Perry 's wealthiest supporters , who poured more than $ 17 million into his super PAC even while his campaign struggled to raise traditional contributions .
4025 s-struggled ` Mr. Perry 's decision to suspend his campaign roiled the Texas donor world on Friday , setting off a race to win the allegiance of Mr. Perry 's wealthiest supporters , who poured more than $ 17 million into his super PAC even while his campaign struggled to raise traditional contributions .
4026 s-swear It 's faint -- far beyond my grasp -- but I swear that there 's another reserve within me , one that only appears when I 'm burning your metal . ''
4027 s-treated The skaa are treated terribly , but I guess that 's true everywhere . ''
4028 s-use Similarly , Ted Cruz and Scott Walker responded to the murder of a sheriff 's deputy in Texas with statements blaming Mr. Obama for increased anti-police language , which they suggested endangers public safety and law enforcement.Some G.O.P. strategists fear that these tactics could be damaging in the general election , but the party 's turn toward a hard-edged message on crime can be interpreted as an attempt to find a noneconomic issue it can use against Democrats .
4029 s-use Keep the earring -- it 's small , so you wo n't be able to do much with it , but you could use it as a weapon in an emergency . ''
4030 s-use True , she can only use the first four metals with any skill , but the progress she 's made is amazing . ''
4031 s-use She 's the one who first introduced me to Sazed , though I did n't use him in my crew at the time .
4032 s-use ___ 6:05 p.m.New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is touting his anti-abortion rights record but stopping short of saying he 'd shut down the government to defund Planned Parenthood.Asked three times whether he would press to defund the women 's health organization even if it results in a government closure , Christie punted on the question.Christie says he 'd put it `` on the list '' of issues that Republicans should use to force a compromise from President Barack Obama , along with tax legislation.Christie has described the past government shutdown , which Republicans forced over the health care law , as a political misstep for the GOP .
4033 s-used The president 's aides did not ask any of the guests for library contributions after the dinner , but a number of those at the table could be donors in the future.The $ 1 billion - double what George W. Bush raised for his library and its various programs - would be used for what one adviser called a ` digital-first ' presidential library loaded with modern technologies , and to establish a foundation with a worldwide reach.Supporters have urged Mr. Obama to avoid the mistake made by Bill Clinton , whose associates raised just enough money to build his library in Little Rock , Ark. , forcing Mr. Clinton to pursue high-dollar donors for years to come .
4034 s-used And Kelsier says the entire land used to be even more fertile than a nobleman 's garden .
4035 s-used The evening 's foods -- brought on the barges especially for the occasion -- were humble by aristocratic standards , but were much finer than what the soldiers were used to .
4036 s-used The question is whether to do it honestly or not : whether to engage in a straightforward exercise that would require honestly confronting the 2011 budget agreement ; or whether to pump more money into the Pentagon 's Overseas Contingency Operations account , or O.C.O.This would represent a further corruption of an account created to underwrite the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq but has since been used for purposes unrelated to these conflicts , like the bombing in Syria .
4037 s-used As the nation 's first lady , she fought for health insurance for poor children.Even now , in her second presidential bid , Mrs. Clinton - often accused of being too cautious - has used some of her boldest language on issues of racial justice.Mr .
4038 s-withdraw Perry 's decision to withdraw likely means the end of a political career that was remarkable in Texas but lackluster beyond his state 's borders .
4039 sacked-staves Some of the boxes would be filled with weapons -- swords , war staves , bows -- but the bulk of the material was sacked foodstuffs .
4040 said-seem ` Well , I have n't learned yet to trust the Iranian leadership , ' said Mr. Obama , ` although I think that what John Kerry learned in his interactions with Foreign Minister Zarif - and that then traces back to President Rouhani - is that when you nail down an agreement , they do seem to follow it to the letter , perhaps thinking there may be a loophole here or there , which is why you have to button this stuff down .
4041 said-seem `` The strong houses do n't seem very afraid , though , '' Vin said .
4042 said-seem ` The ` low energy ' candidate this week has only been six days , 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart , ' he said.But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit , but Mr. Trump , the surprise leader in the polls , has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush , gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement.There is the personal ridicule - continually questioning Mr. Bush 's vigor , invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother , Barbara Bush , that ` we 've had enough Bushes ' in the White House , and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish.But the torment goes deeper than that .
4043 said-seem Link said he told him : ` Sanders has real energy and people are for Hillary but do n't seem superenthused .
4044 said-seem `` Maybe they 'd make a good ticket together , '' she quipped over breakfast at a local market.Other Democrats said they liked Sanders ' calls for free college tuition and better wages for the middle class.But some shared the view of 30-year-old Aaron Singleton of Canton , who said Sanders ' plans seem `` so far-fetched as to how he 's going to implement them . ''
4045 said-spoke `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
4046 said-spoke `` The title said something about the weather , but the words inside spoke about the Final Empire and its flaws . ''
4047 said-spoke ` One person can make a difference , ' he said at another.But he also spoke with emotional power , as when he recalled his father 's early job in an ice cream factory in Newark .
4048 said-spoke During a briefing with donors to the ` super PAC ' backing Hillary Rodham Clinton , her campaign chairman said their team would not be affected if Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. joined the race , but questioned whether Mr. Biden could put together an operation in places like Nevada , an attendee said.In the meeting with several supporters of Priorities USA , the campaign chairman John Podesta , when asked how the Clinton team is viewing a potential campaign by the Vice President , said he spoke with Mr. Biden 's adviser Steve Ricchetti a day earlier , according to the attendee.He also said that Mr. Biden may not make a decision about whether to run until November , although he did n't indicate whether Mr. Ricchetti had told him that or if he based it on news accounts that have raised that timeline as a possibility .
4049 said-tell Dockson said , though Vin could n't tell if it was a curse or an observation .
4050 said-valette `` They may not be visible , '' Elend said quietly , `` but they 're there , Valette .
4051 said-wanting ` This is Bush land , ' she said , but added , ` There are a lot of Republican establishment givers who are n't wanting to support the establishment .
4052 said-was I do n't have time to talk about somebody else , ' Mr. Kasich said , adding that he was fully occupied , like Mr. Carson , with introducing himself to voters.Responding to a question from a voter about how he had similarly deflected the topic of Mr. Trump in a CNN interview , Mr. Kasich even avoided mentioning the unlikely Republican poll-leader by name.For a while , that is.He eventually gave in to temptation , after uncorking a metaphor about how his much-praised debate performance was akin to being an astronaut launched in a rocket ship .
4053 said-was I was happy to have done it for him , but I did n't start out to do it that way , ' Mr. Hendrix said .
4054 said-was The $ 53,657 the household in the middle of the income distribution earned last year was down 1.5 percent from the year before , though the census said that shift was not statistically significant.But even if that drop is a statistical blip and you assume that middle-class incomes were really flat , flat is n't anything to celebrate in the current environment .
4055 said-was I can not imagine that any American who comes here would somehow feel that the Israelis are out of line in wanting to have as safe a barrier between them and their sworn enemies as possible , ' he said , though it was unclear exactly which ` sworn enemies ' he was referring to .
4056 said-was I can not imagine that any American who comes here would somehow feel that the Israelis are out of line in wanting to have as safe a barrier between them and their sworn enemies as possible , ' he said , though it was unclear exactly which ` sworn enemies ' he was referring to .
4057 said-was Mr. Olson , who farms 2,000 acres of corn and soybeans , said in an interview that Deez Nuts was his son Brady , who begins his sophomore year in high school next week.Like any surging candidate , Deez Nuts has been besieged with requests from the national news media since becoming an Internet meme , but has said he would be interviewed only by email .
4058 said-was `` What is important for the IOC is that we want to send the athletes only to cities where they are welcome , '' Bach said , adding that the IOC will carry out its own confidential polling in all the bid cities.Germany , which last held the Summer Olympics in Munich in 1972 , is the leading contender to host the European soccer championship in 2024 , but Bach - a German - said there was no reason the country could n't hold both events .
4059 said-was But he said that as a general matter , it has been the government 's practice to use broad language covering all of Verizon 's entities in headings of such court orders because it has a complex corporate structure , regardless of whether any specific part was required to provide information under that order.Most of the inspector general reports , unlike the letter , contained redactions .
4060 said-was In one , an anchor said that Mr. Trump had nothing in his head but air , and in another , Armando Guzmán , a Washington correspondent , accused Mr. Trump of lying : ` As in everything else , Trump is not telling the truth , ' Mr. Guzmán said.The last one-on-one interview Mr. Trump gave to a Spanish-language network was with Mr. Díaz-Balart on Telemundo , shortly after Mr. Trump announced his candidacy .
4061 said-was Zeldin said that he had done that , for his own part , but that he was not shocked by corruption among lawmakers whom he described as underpaid .
4062 said-was Investigators have found no evidence that the gunman , Mohammod Abdulazeez , was in contact with the Islamic State , but they say they believe that he watched terrorist videos on the Internet , most likely making him the kind of self-radicalized killer that the F.B.I. is trying to stop.An event this spring in Boston illustrates how the authorities now react faster to potential violence , Mr. Comey said.In May , counterterrorism investigators began surveillance of Usaamah Abdullah Rahim , a 26-year-old man who been in touch with the Islamic State online .
4063 said-was Amalgamated , officials at the now-closed super PAC said , was willing to underwrite the loan against the flow of future contributions.Keith Mestrich , a former union official who became the bank 's president last year , said in an interview that he could not discuss specific clients , but that finding creative ways to serve allies effectively was important to the bank 's mission .
4064 said-was Amalgamated , officials at the now-closed super PAC said , was willing to underwrite the loan against the flow of future contributions.Keith Mestrich , a former union official who became the bank 's president last year , said in an interview that he could not discuss specific clients , but that finding creative ways to serve allies effectively was important to the bank 's mission .
4065 said-was `` A Democrat familiar with Biden 's deliberations said recent discussions have focused on whether Biden 's family would be ready to pursue a third presidential campaign only months after the death of the vice president 's son , Beau Biden.Also under consideration is whether Biden can meet the basic criteria to be a serious contender , such as whether he would have a plausible path to victory in the campaign and whether he would be able to raise enough money to be competitive.The Democrat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the private conversations.Biden 's trip to Florida , one of the nation 's premiere campaign battleground states , includes meetings with Jewish leaders on Thursday who are skeptical of Obama 's effort to win support for the nuclear deal with Iran.He then heads to Pittsburgh to march in a Labor Day parade on Monday with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka , who met privately with the vice president last week and says `` the field is still wide open '' if Biden decides to run.The travels mark the latest chapter in Biden 's deliberations , which have included private discussions with family members and longtime aides at his Delaware home and a Naval Observatory meeting with Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren , a popular liberal whose endorsement would be coveted by any Democratic candidate.Warren said Wednesday that she and Biden had `` a good long rambly policy conversation '' at the Naval Observatory .
4066 said-was Reagan `` had a bitter hatred of communism , '' Russo said , but `` was dreadfully fearful ... of ending the world with a nuclear holocaust .
4067 said-was The Garrison was n't back yet , but reports said it was close , perhaps only a week or two out .
4068 said-was Dockson said , though Vin could n't tell if it was a curse or an observation .
4069 said-was ` It was amazing to see the kind of leadership you provided for this country in what could have been a negative not just for you all , but for this country , ' Mr. Walker said of the peaceful and discerning responses to the massacre .
4070 said-was It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
4071 said-was I know why it was happening , because an electrical current in its nodes were still firing , ' Ms. O'Donnell said .
4072 said-was ` In an interview with The Associated Press during a Labor Day campaign swing through Iowa , Mrs. Clinton said on Monday that she did not need to apologize for using a private email account and server while at the State Department because ` what I did was allowed .
4073 said-was Mr. Biden , in contrast , stressed the success of the bill 's community policing measures , which he said had achieved their goals before funding was cut.And in an interview with Time magazine in February 2014 , he said , ' I am not only the guy who did the crime bill and the drug czar , but I 'm also the guy who spent years when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee trying to change drug policy relative to cocaine , for example , crack and powder .
4074 said-was Mr. Biden , in contrast , stressed the success of the bill 's community policing measures , which he said had achieved their goals before funding was cut.And in an interview with Time magazine in February 2014 , he said , ' I am not only the guy who did the crime bill and the drug czar , but I 'm also the guy who spent years when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee trying to change drug policy relative to cocaine , for example , crack and powder .
4075 said-was The law also included a stringent voter ID requirement that has since been softened and was not included in the current trial.The ` cumulative impact ' of all these changes at once imposed a burden on minority voters that is illegal under the Voting Rights Act and also the 14th and 15th Amendments , said Daniel T. Donovan , a lawyer with Kirkland and Ellis who was arguing on behalf of the North Carolina N.A.A.C.P.But an expert testifying for the state , Trey Hood , a political scientist at the University of Georgia , said he could find no evidence that the altered rules hampered black voting in 2014 .
4076 said-was The law also included a stringent voter ID requirement that has since been softened and was not included in the current trial.The ` cumulative impact ' of all these changes at once imposed a burden on minority voters that is illegal under the Voting Rights Act and also the 14th and 15th Amendments , said Daniel T. Donovan , a lawyer with Kirkland and Ellis who was arguing on behalf of the North Carolina N.A.A.C.P.But an expert testifying for the state , Trey Hood , a political scientist at the University of Georgia , said he could find no evidence that the altered rules hampered black voting in 2014 .
4077 said-was He had already stopped paying staff and was uncertain whether he would even have the money to pay the state filing fees required in the coming months to be on the ballot next year , they said .
4078 sat-sazed Sazed had told her to stay , but the more she sat , the more she found her eyes drawn toward the hidden balcony .
4079 sat-shrugged Vin sat for a moment , but he obviously expected a reply , so she finally shrugged .
4080 sat-was The massive `` room '' was large enough to hold the entire army of seven thousand men , though many sat in side chambers or halfway out into tunnels .
4081 sat-was A stool sat in one corner , but the room was otherwise empty .
4082 sat-was He sat strongly on his throne , but there was still a weariness to his posture and his voice .
4083 sat-was The massive `` room '' was large enough to hold the entire army of seven thousand men , though many sat in side chambers or halfway out into tunnels .
4084 sat-was A stool sat in one corner , but the room was otherwise empty .
4085 sat-was He sat strongly on his throne , but there was still a weariness to his posture and his voice .
4086 save-try I will save the world , certainly -- but will I try to take it as well ?
4087 saving-sound `` Thirty thousand may not sound like much to your type , but it 's the result of decades of saving on our part .
4088 saw-turned Vin turned away from his nudity , but not before she saw the place between his legs -- a simple , empty scar where his manhood should have been .
4089 saw-turning We saw the same thing with another Clinton , William Jefferson , who had even worse favorable ratings than Mrs. Clinton before quickly turning around his image once the 1992 general election began.It 's useful to imagine a counterfactual : What if the economy had been stronger , and George H.W. Bush had had a 60 percent approval rating , on Election Day in 1992 ?
4090 say-thinking ` As inappropriate as some of his comments are , I think it 's stuff that a lot of people are thinking but afraid to say , ' she said .
4091 say-unfolding ` Political analysts here say , however , that if there is a threat to the unfolding turmoil , it is exactly to the prevailing narrative of her administration - and , by association , state Republicans - as agents of change .
4092 say-want ` That he has no experience in government is not a liability , many say , but rather one of the main reasons they want him in Washington .
4093 sazed-setting The sun was close to setting ; soon , the mists would come -- though , as usual , Sazed would have guards posted to make certain that she did n't go on any unauthorized Allomantic romps .
4094 sazed-shut The drapes were shut , but he could pick out Dockson , Vin , Sazed , Ham , and Breeze standing around Renoux 's desk .
4095 sazed-stepped She stepped forward , but Sazed put a hand on her shoulder , holding her back .
4096 sazed-stood `` Mistress , '' Sazed prompted , but she simply stood there .
4097 sazed-suit `` My apologies , Master Kelsier , '' Sazed said , `` but the religion does not suit you , I think .
4098 sazed-translating Sazed still gave her occasional lessons , but his time was dominated by translating the book .
4099 sazed-was She was tall for a skaa woman -- though standing next to Sazed made her look diminutive .
4100 sazed-was Her hair was getting a bit long for her taste -- though somehow she doubted that Sazed was going to let her have it cropped boyishly short .
4101 sazed-was Sazed 's lessons might have omitted dancing , but they had been quite extensive regarding dining etiquette , for which Vin was grateful .
4102 sazed-was Sazed still gave her occasional lessons , but his time was dominated by translating the book .
4103 sazed-was The sun was close to setting ; soon , the mists would come -- though , as usual , Sazed would have guards posted to make certain that she did n't go on any unauthorized Allomantic romps .
4104 scanned-tell She scanned the table , trying to notice if anything had been disturbed , but Elend had left the books in such a state of disarray that it was hard to tell .
4105 scattered-was Notably , Elend was n't at the table either -- though his books still lay scattered across its top .
4106 search-stood Some of the soldiers were trying to search the crowd for Ham and his men , but many just stood still .
4107 securing-seems For them , capital counts , not people , ' she said , echoing views commonly heard from left-leaning Berlin residents.Germans , like many Europeans , remain puzzled by America 's system for selecting a leader - for its length , its expense and its inclusion of what Mr. Lammert , the professor , called ` crazy outsiders ' with little chance at actually securing the Republican or Democratic nomination for president.But the Germans ' history-laden capital seems to have become an obligatory stop on the campaign path to the White House .
4108 see-strolled She could see he was still troubled , but he did turn back to their walk , letting her gently take his arm again as they strolled .
4109 see-understand Reen had taken Vin , sneaking her in , insisting that she at least see her father once -- though she still did n't understand why .
4110 see-understand Ham might not understand , but Vin could see the enticement .
4111 see-was ` As Democratic Party officials see Bernie Sanders 's mounting strength with voters , I think they will begin to better understand that he will not only be a strong nominee who can help Democrats all across the country win elections , but he actually will be the white knight if they need one , ' said Mr. Devine , who was a past adviser to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore .
4112 see-was The front door was gone , though Vin could see remnants of it in the splintered refuse on the floor .
4113 see-was I was your god , even if you could n't see it .
4114 see-was I was your god , even if you could n't see it .
4115 see-was The sun was setting , making it even easier to see the illuminated Keep Venture -- Elend 's choice of headquarters for the moment , though he might still move to Kredik Shaw .
4116 see-was It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
4117 see-was ` As Democratic Party officials see Bernie Sanders 's mounting strength with voters , I think they will begin to better understand that he will not only be a strong nominee who can help Democrats all across the country win elections , but he actually will be the white knight if they need one , ' said Mr. Devine , who was a past adviser to Mr. Kerry and Mr. Gore .
4118 see-was The front door was gone , though Vin could see remnants of it in the splintered refuse on the floor .
4119 see-was I was your god , even if you could n't see it .
4120 see-was I was your god , even if you could n't see it .
4121 see-was The sun was setting , making it even easier to see the illuminated Keep Venture -- Elend 's choice of headquarters for the moment , though he might still move to Kredik Shaw .
4122 see-was It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
4123 see-were She could see better , and she could see farther , but the mists were still there .
4124 see-were She could see better , and she could see farther , but the mists were still there .
4125 see-were They were still thick , but tin let her see a faint glistening on the horizon .
4126 see-were It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
4127 seeking-totaling The party 's fiscal conservatives see this as a betrayal of agreed-upon budget targets.In a 2011 deficit showdown , President Obama and Congressional Republicans agreed to severe budget cuts totaling $ 1.2 trillion over 10 years that would apply to both domestic and defense programs.This Congress seems content to leave undisturbed the mandated cuts for domestic programs , many of which affect the poor and middle class , but Republicans as well as some Democrats are now seeking a hefty increase of as much as $ 100 billion in Pentagon spending from a base budget of $ 499 billion .
4128 seem-walking Jumping was faster than walking , but there did n't seem much point to it in the empty wilderness .
4129 seemed-study He seemed to know as much about the Lord Ruler 's mythology as he did about other religions , though it seemed odd to her that he would study the very religion he found so oppressive .
4130 seemed-supposed Elend Venture was supposed to be a fool and a fop , but now he just seemed ... earnest .
4131 seemed-was He seemed to think it was his teaching , but Vin felt it was something else .
4132 seemed-was It was hard to tell in the night , but it seemed that the four bars made a line that pointed directly toward Luthadel .
4133 seemed-was It was n't a hard rain , but it seemed to clear the mist slightly .
4134 seemed-was She was n't participating in the conversation , but seemed to dominate it nonetheless .
4135 seemed-was I was afraid , so I acted like a proper noblewoman -- but you seemed disappointed when I did n't have more to say . ''
4136 seemed-was Elend Venture was supposed to be a fool and a fop , but now he just seemed ... earnest .
4137 seemed-was It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
4138 seemed-was The legislators who sponsored the 2013 law have refused to testify , citing legislative immunity.During closing arguments Friday , Judge Schroeder , who was appointed by President George W. Bush , peppered the plaintiffs ' lawyers with questions about why the repeal of extra voting opportunities that do not exist in many states would be illegal.But he also pressed the state 's lawyers on what motivated legislators to make the sudden changes to a system that seemed to be popular and working well .
4139 seemed-watched Vin watched in silence , but she seemed a little less certain of herself .
4140 seemed-watched It 's very high energy , Donald , ' Mr. Bush said to laughs.Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line , holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap , which he did with notable energy.The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump , yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6 , and standout performances from four candidates - Mr. Trump , Mr. Carson , Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich - helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks ; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election , according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.Wednesday 's forum , held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party 's most revered presidents , had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month 's debate , which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others , like Mr. Carson.In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity , it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential .
4141 seems-thought This seems extreme , even for the Ministry , she thought .
4142 seen-waved She waved toward Sazed , but he had obviously already seen her .
4143 seen-whispered A fight between two powerful Allomancers was something whispered about , but never seen .
4144 seized-was ` If Trump is n't offering workable solutions but he is identifying problems that others have ignored , the hope is some more policy-focused , more governance-focused competitor will make use of the opportunity that Trump has publicized , ' Mr. Frum said.In an analogy that wo n't make anyone very comfortable , he said Mr. Trump could be useful in the same way George Wallace was in 1968 : ` Wallace talked about a lot of issues , many of them pretty dismaying , but he also seized on the crime issue .
4145 seized-was Mrs. Fiorina made the most of every question she was asked , and she seized the floor even when it was n't her turn .
4146 seizing-stealing The part about stealing the atium reserves was tempting , but seizing the city to do it ?
4147 sell-stays That 's what I 'm trying to put together , ' Mrs. Clinton says , ` in a way that I can explain it , and I can sell it - because in politics , if you ca n't explain it and you ca n't sell it , it stays on the shelf .
4148 send-thinks Felt thinks she 's a thief , but there have to be other reasons a group like that would send someone to balls .
4149 send-watched `` I was going to send word of my survival , but they watched me fairly closely that first day .
4150 sense-were Vin thought she could sense his men Rioting on her emotions , too , but these touches were n't nearly as subtle as Breeze 's .
4151 sense-were These metals were too diffuse to be affected by Allomancy -- indeed , most Allomancers could n't even sense them .
4152 sent-took Clubs 's apprentices took up one room to themselves , though Dockson had sent away all of the other servants before coming to the safe house .
4153 separates-yelling ___ 12:20 p.m.Ohio Gov. John Kasich is n't backing away from his support for the Common Core standards , which separates him from many of his GOP rivals.Kasich says he believes in higher standards , with local school boards developing curricula to meet those benchmarks.Kasich spoke to a group of education advocates at a forum kicking off a busy day of campaigning in the early-voting state of New Hampshire.While many of his fellow Republican governors have backed away from Common Core , Kasich says he 's not going to change his position `` because there 's four people in the front row yelling at me . ''
4154 served-serves ` Reform conservatism is based on a recognition that the American economy has not served middle-income people well , not just since the crisis of 2008 but at least since the year 2000 , ' said David Frum , the prominent Canadian-American conservative journalist and former speechwriter for George W. Bush who serves as a senior editor at The Atlantic.Though the reform conservatives dissent from conservative tax orthodoxy , they are not necessarily moderates .
4155 settled-starting `` I 'm glad that 's settled , because I 'm starting to feel tired -- and poor Vin looks like she 's about to nod off in the middle of her fruit plate . ''
4156 shake-was Ignoring the newcomer , she tried to shake herself free from Camon 's grip , but she was too weak .
4157 shaped-turned ` The conversation turned even more pointed and personal when a CNN moderator noted that Mr. Trump had suggested that Mr. Bush 's views on immigration were shaped by his marriage to a Mexican-born woman.Mr .
4158 shaped-withstanding But amassing the delegates and voters to win the nomination is a lot harder than withstanding attacks on controversial comments five or six months before an election.Grass-roots conservatives and liberals may resent it , but many analysts - including me - argue that the outcome of presidential nominations is shaped or even decided by party elites .
4159 shared-stared Many of the workers shared glances , though some just stared at their half-empty soup bowls .
4160 shift-won There is no serious reason to think this polarity will shift anytime soon.But elections are very rarely won by major realignments ; most of the time , they 're won around the margins - and the margins of the black vote are more malleable than they might initially appear .
4161 shift-won There is no serious reason to think this polarity will shift anytime soon.But elections are very rarely won by major realignments ; most of the time , they 're won around the margins - and the margins of the black vote are more malleable than they might initially appear .
4162 shiver-using She could see why people would stop using the nickname ; even referring to a Steel Inquisitor made her shiver .
4163 shot-yelped Vin yelped , trying to jump away , but the object -- a rusty nail -- shot directly toward her .
4164 show-was The neckline was lower -- not that she had a lot to show -- but it was beautiful .
4165 showed-taped But it also showed Mrs. Clinton as even her admirers lament that she is seldom seen : spontaneous , impassioned and seemingly unconcerned about potential repercussions.The exchange , taped Aug. 11 , came after Black Lives Matter activists tried unsuccessfully to disrupt one of Mrs. Clinton 's events in Keene , N.H. , as they have managed to do at campaign stops by other presidential contenders .
4166 shown-undertake They acknowledge that the Islamic State - a radical Sunni terrorist organization operating chiefly out of Syria and Iraq , and also known as ISIS or ISIL - has shown no ability to stage significant attacks inside the United States.But they say sympathizers have repeatedly expressed a willingness to undertake small-scale attacks , such as stabbings and shootings that require little planning .
4167 shrugged-watching Ham was watching carefully , but Breeze just shrugged .
4168 shutting-sighed Kelsier sighed , but backed away from the balcony , pulling the doors closed and shutting the drapes .
4169 sighed-soothe With her copper on , he could n't Soothe her , but ... Eventually , she sighed and carried both chairs over to the side of the room .
4170 sink-strolled She had to force herself not to cringe or sink down in her chair , however , as a high prelan strolled along the pathway behind her .
4171 slaughtered-taught We 're going to give you an army of well-equipped , well-fed men -- and I 'll be damned if I 'm going to let you get them slaughtered because they were never taught which end of the sword to hold . ''
4172 sleep-whips Usually , he returned above to sleep -- though the surface held taskmasters with whips , they also had food .
4173 smashing-spun He spun out of the way , brushing past a small tree , but a third hazekiller attacked , smashing his cane into Kelsier 's side .
4174 smelled-were None of them smelled like she did , though they were far more cleanly and well groomed than average skaa .
4175 smiled-torn Its neck was red from Kelsier 's grip , bits of flesh torn by his fingernails , but it smiled still .
4176 snapped-throw The ingot snapped into one of the men 's shields , but Kelsier did n't continue Pushing , lest he throw himself off balance .
4177 sneaking-understand Reen had taken Vin , sneaking her in , insisting that she at least see her father once -- though she still did n't understand why .
4178 sneaking-was It was all subtle , of course , but it would be enough to give her away while sneaking .
4179 softened-testifying The law also included a stringent voter ID requirement that has since been softened and was not included in the current trial.The ` cumulative impact ' of all these changes at once imposed a burden on minority voters that is illegal under the Voting Rights Act and also the 14th and 15th Amendments , said Daniel T. Donovan , a lawyer with Kirkland and Ellis who was arguing on behalf of the North Carolina N.A.A.C.P.But an expert testifying for the state , Trey Hood , a political scientist at the University of Georgia , said he could find no evidence that the altered rules hampered black voting in 2014 .
4180 soothe-wish A careful Allomancer can Soothe away all emotions but a single one , essentially making a person feel exactly as they wish .
4181 soothed-yanked She Soothed away all of the woman 's feelings but fear , then took hold of that fear and yanked on it with a firm tug .
4182 sort-tried Could have been ... The events of the last day were difficult enough to sort through ; Vin had n't even tried to make sense of her emotions , which were a far bigger mess .
4183 sparks-stay If Obama had wanted to stay out of the campaign fray , however , he could have joined Duncan in one of the six other states the secretary is visiting.Instead , Obama chose Des Moines , the capital of a politically important state that sparks nostalgia for the president and his closest advisers .
4184 speak-tried Vin did n't speak , though she tried to make as little noise as possible .
4185 speeding-turned `` We 'll see what you say in sixteen hours , '' Kelsier said , speeding up even more as they turned off the highway , running onto the wide towpath beside the Luth-Davn Canal .
4186 spend-think Do you think we even want to spend money to do that ? ''
4187 spoken-suspect Master Dockson has n't spoken of his romantic life , but I suspect that there is something painful in his past .
4188 spotted-thrown He also attended a party on the island thrown by Democratic power broker Vernon Jordan , who also hosted an even last year where Obama was spotted on the dance floor.But there were no images of Obama dancing this year .
4189 squinting-were `` You were n't there for a lot of the recruiting , though , Spook , '' Ham said , squinting .
4190 squirming-was She fought angrily , squirming and struggling , but his grip was tight .
4191 staggered-stayed The man staggered , but stayed on his feet -- Vin was nowhere near as heavy as Kelsier .
4192 stained-was His clothing was stained slightly by dark ash , though his face was relatively clean , for a skaa .
4193 stalking-win ` Still , Mr. Trump could be a useful stalking horse for the reformocons even if they think he has bad policy ideas , says a lot of offensive things , ca n't win an election and would n't be a good president .
4194 stand-think I 'll try and think of another way , but as things stand now , Venture has to fall . ''
4195 stand-wondering Kelsier looked up , wondering if he even had the strength to stand .
4196 start-uses Ghaffarian , who uses the nickname Roshan , will be at the White House for next week 's state dinner for President Xi Jinping of China , but officials said she would officially start in the East Wing in mid-October .
4197 stepped-tugged They stepped out of the way , but Kelsier tugged on the ingot , dropping it to the ground directly in front of them .
4198 stood-taken ` Despite reservations , Mr. Biden , who has served as the Obama administration 's unofficial liaison to the law enforcement community , has not only stood by the 1994 legislation , but has also frequently taken credit for it .
4199 stood-turn Kelsier expected her to turn away in disgust , but she just stood quietly , a look of grim satisfaction on her face .
4200 stood-was The room beyond was empty of people , but a golden altar stood at its center .
4201 stooped-were She stooped down , trying to peek past him into the lair , but too many people were in the way .
4202 stopped-swallow They slowed occasionally to drink water or swallow more pewter beads -- but she never stopped running .
4203 streaking-were He immediately Pushed , sending the coins streaking away -- but they were only a distraction .
4204 strolling-tensed Vin tensed , but he did n't move toward her , instead strolling to the bar .
4205 struggling-succeeded ` It will turn into a subversive war that benefits the enemy , ' he added.The fighting this year has put increased pressure on President Ashraf Ghani 's struggling government , even as he has succeeded in opening initial talks with the Taliban in the hope of beginning a formal peace process .
4206 stumbled-throwing She tried throwing them both back with a sudden Steelpush against a doorlatch , but the anchor was too weak , and Kar barely stumbled .
4207 styled-suffers Valette suffers my hair the way it is , but would she like it better if I had it styled ?
4208 succeed-warned Thornell warned , however , that candidates asking for the black vote will not succeed by speaking in rosy platitudes .
4209 suing-supported __ 3:45 p.m.Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal is n't backing off from his criticism of Common Core math standards despite pushback from the moderator of an education forum in New Hampshire.Jindal initially supported Common Core but is now suing the federal government over the standards.The Republican presidential candidate often tells a story about his son bringing home Common Core-aligned math homework that requires a new , multi-step process for solving basic addition .
4210 summoned-was When the Republican House majority leader at the time , Dick Armey , balked at invading Iraq unprovoked , because Saddam was a clownish tyrant but not a nuclear menace to America , Dick Cheney summoned Armey to his Capitol hideaway and coerced him with brazen fabrications.As Barton Gellman wrote in ` Angler : The Cheney Vice Presidency , ' Cheney tried to spook his old friend in September 2002 by confiding that the Iraqis were well on their way to developing miniaturized nuclear weapons and that Al Qaeda was working with Saddam and his family - both spurious assertions.Aside from the Blair poodle and the Coalition of the Willing-to-Overlook-Counterfeit-Claims , our allies tried to warn us .
4211 suppose-tend A crude term , I suppose -- but they tend to be rather crude people .
4212 suppress-watched She watched from the darkness , however , and was n't completely able to suppress her longing .
4213 swore-was Maybe it was the death , but now that she was actually within the building , she swore that she could still feel the Lord Ruler 's power .
4214 sworn-wanting I can not imagine that any American who comes here would somehow feel that the Israelis are out of line in wanting to have as safe a barrier between them and their sworn enemies as possible , ' he said , though it was unclear exactly which ` sworn enemies ' he was referring to .
4215 swung-used She swung the staff , but she 'd never used one of the weapons before , and her attack was laughable .
4216 tailored-wore He also wore a nobleman 's suit , though his was less sharply tailored .
4217 take-warned ` Headquarters was saying , ` You ca n't take the chance that these guys will quickly do something crazy , '' ' one senior law enforcement official said.The warnings about unpredictable , small-scale attacks , however , are not completely new.Shortly after Sept. 11 , the F.B.I. warned of attacks against churches , supermarkets and shopping malls .
4218 tarnished-traffics The hackers have now shared customers ' names , email addresses , home addresses , sexual fantasies and worse for all the world to snigger at.So much for putting any faith in a company that traffics in infidelity.Yet as the Star 's Sunny Freeman reports , this cloud of two-timing gloom has a silver lining , however tarnished .
4219 taxed-ticking An additional $ 238 billion would come from the one-time surge of taxes as corporations are forced to pay 14 percent on profits now parked abroad.The White House wants that proposal to be part of a much larger plan to change the way businesses are taxed and lower the corporate tax rate to 28 percent - 25 percent for manufacturers - from 35 percent.But with the clock ticking on federal highway and transit programs , that more ambitious plan could fall away for a targeted infrastructure plan backed by both parties.Mr .
4220 tell-urge You know you 're in trouble when the Germans tell you that you 're too militaristic.The Saudis thought Saddam was a monster , but , according to a Saudi official , they sent top emissaries to urge W. against war .
4221 thrive-varying Those factors may have created conditions for his candidacy to thrive , but his personality , celebrity and boldness , not merely his populism and policy stances , have let him take advantage of them.Tellingly , when asked to explain support for Mr. Trump in their own words , voters of varying backgrounds used much the same language , calling him ` ballsy ' and saying they admired that he ` tells it like it is ' and relished how he ` is n't politically correct .
4222 throbbing-was He raised his head , his eye-spikes throbbing as always , bringing him pain -- but , this evening it was the pain of joy .
4223 tore-witnessed ` Many of us who grew up in the black community in the '90s , ' said Patrisse Cullors , a political organizer and co-founder of the Black Lives Matter movement , ` we witnessed the wave in which the policies that came from both federal government but also local government tore our families apart . ''
4224 tracked-try `` Thieving crews try , but they get tracked down and executed .
4225 trained-were Hazekillers were n't Allomancers , but they were trained to fight Mistings and Mistborn .
4226 trapped-weighed Sometimes , soldiers have beseeched local men in the town to accept their dead and contact foreign groups like the International Committee of the Red Cross that might be able to get the bodies back to the provincial capital more quickly.Lieutenant Javed said the prospect of remaining trapped even in death weighed heavily on him . '
4227 traveled-walk Kelsier remained quiet as they traveled toward Marsh 's new Soothing station , though he did walk with a bit more of a spring in his step .
4228 treated-was Or was she simply treated with respect because she was a guest ?
4229 tresting-were Tresting had his own , personal obligators back at the manor , but they were only minor functionaries , with barely a few marks around their eyes .
4230 tresting-were It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
4231 tresting-were It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
4232 trick-worry We can take his money , we can take his armies , we can trick him out of the city ... but I still worry that we wo n't be able to stop him . ''
4233 trusted-was It was the shadowed prospect -- unlikely and unreasonable , but still seductive -- of a group whose members actually trusted one another .
4234 trusted-was In truth , Dockson was n't even certain how much he trusted the man .
4235 trusted-was It was the shadowed prospect -- unlikely and unreasonable , but still seductive -- of a group whose members actually trusted one another .
4236 trusted-was In truth , Dockson was n't even certain how much he trusted the man .
4237 tucked-wore She still wore her dress -- a beautiful red gown -- though she sat in an unladylike position , legs tucked beneath her .
4238 turned-vying Several candidates vying for the Republican nomination have vowed to pull out of the Iran deal , upend the Affordable Care Act and end some Obama immigration policies.Obama has n't endorsed any of the Democratic contenders , though he 's said Clinton - his former rival-turned ally - would make an excellent president .
4239 turned-was Several senior House members turned their eyes toward Rob Bruchman , who had voted ` yes ' on the first bill but was a ` no ' on this one .
4240 turned-was She turned back to Kelsier , but he was gone .
4241 turned-was The fact that she was sent to die hints that maybe she really did n't betray me , but ... '' He turned toward Vin .
4242 turned-was He turned back toward Vin , angry , but his face was no longer that of a young man .
4243 twist-was Should have ... '' Vin tried to twist free , but Camon 's grip was firm .
4244 understand-wish `` Oh , child -- I do not wish to bring you pain , but you must understand the ways of the court .
4245 underwrite-used The question is whether to do it honestly or not : whether to engage in a straightforward exercise that would require honestly confronting the 2011 budget agreement ; or whether to pump more money into the Pentagon 's Overseas Contingency Operations account , or O.C.O.This would represent a further corruption of an account created to underwrite the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq but has since been used for purposes unrelated to these conflicts , like the bombing in Syria .
4246 unsettled-were His men were few , but the enemy soldiers seemed visibly unsettled by the skaa rebels ' determination .
4247 using-vin `` The creature is no longer using my brother 's body -- he has another one -- but he came looking for you , Vin . ''
4248 using-was She 'd assumed that he was using horses , but it appeared that there was a better way .
4249 using-was Kelsier had warned against using it too much , lest she grow dependent upon its power , but she saw little alternative until she was healed .
4250 using-was He was using you ... but he was also training you . ''
4251 using-was ` In an interview with The Associated Press during a Labor Day campaign swing through Iowa , Mrs. Clinton said on Monday that she did not need to apologize for using a private email account and server while at the State Department because ` what I did was allowed .
4252 valette-was Vin the thief was nothing to a man such as Renoux , but Valette the socialite was another matter .
4253 varied-was They varied in height , but each one was tall .
4254 visited-was It was the smallest of the dominances , however , and she 'd never visited the more exotic places in the empire .
4255 voice-whispered You can voice concerns about the job itself , but there will be no more whispered conferences about my leadership .
4256 voted-was Several senior House members turned their eyes toward Rob Bruchman , who had voted ` yes ' on the first bill but was a ` no ' on this one .
4257 voted-won Obama won because of the exceptionally high turnout among African-Americans in seven battleground states - whereas ` had ZERO Latinos voted in 2012 , Obama would have lost the popular vote but still would have won the White House with 283 electoral votes .
4258 walked-wore He walked at the head of the crew , who all -- even Breeze -- wore mundane skaa clothing and cloaks .
4259 want-win More important , Republicans do not want to be targeted by conservative outside groups like Americans for Prosperity , the political advocacy group funded by the libertarian billionaires Charles and David Koch.Tim Phillips , the president of Americans for Prosperity , has said that his group intends to aggressively attack any Republican candidate in the 2016 primaries who endorses carbon regulations.But some Republican strategists worry that the position on climate change that could help win them their party 's nomination could hurt them in a general election , particularly in a contest with a larger number of young and minority voters .
4260 want-win We want the world for them and a world that 's fully open to them.But we also want to win elections , and our coalition is what it is .
4261 wanted-wished She was n't certain what she wanted anymore ; she was n't certain if she were Vin or Valette , or even which of them she wished that she were .
4262 was-were Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows , even those on which he did not appear.Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate - Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio - were both asked about Mr. Trump.Mr .
4263 was-were Talent nonetheless insisted that '' the mission is going well '' and further declared that the invasion was justified even when no weapons of mass destruction were found .
4264 was-were After the debate , the audience underwent a reversal : 59 percent were now convinced that the proper course of action was to contain ISIS rather than to pour blood and treasure into an attempt to destroy it.But Fontaine was not won over . ''
4265 was-were But I think that if I were succeeded by a Republican president - and I 'll be doing everything that I can to prevent that from happening - but if I were , that Republican president would be in a much stronger position than I was when I came into office , in terms of constraining Iran 's nuclear program .
4266 was-were The reason they did was because my administration , our diplomats , and oftentimes me personally , were able to persuade them that the only way to resolve this nuclear problem was to make these sanctions bite .
4267 was-were When the Republican House majority leader at the time , Dick Armey , balked at invading Iraq unprovoked , because Saddam was a clownish tyrant but not a nuclear menace to America , Dick Cheney summoned Armey to his Capitol hideaway and coerced him with brazen fabrications.As Barton Gellman wrote in ` Angler : The Cheney Vice Presidency , ' Cheney tried to spook his old friend in September 2002 by confiding that the Iraqis were well on their way to developing miniaturized nuclear weapons and that Al Qaeda was working with Saddam and his family - both spurious assertions.Aside from the Blair poodle and the Coalition of the Willing-to-Overlook-Counterfeit-Claims , our allies tried to warn us .
4268 was-were Called Form 8962 , it was new for this year 's tax filing season.-About 710,000 households that did not file a 2014 return by the tax-filing deadline , although they were legally required to account for health insurance tax credits.-Some 360,000 households that got tax credits and requested an extension to file their returns .
4269 was-were He also attended a party on the island thrown by Democratic power broker Vernon Jordan , who also hosted an even last year where Obama was spotted on the dance floor.But there were no images of Obama dancing this year .
4270 was-were ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
4271 was-were ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
4272 was-were ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
4273 was-were It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
4274 was-were It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
4275 was-were However , this was a people who had been fed on nothing but soup and gruel since they were children .
4276 was-were He was missing a hand , but his eyes and ears were among the keenest in the crew .
4277 was-were There was a window , though its shutters were closed against approaching gloom .
4278 was-were He was even taller than Kelsier -- tall enough to be a bit abnormal -- and his arms were unusually long .
4279 was-were The late-autumn air was cool , but winters were generally mild in the Central Dominance .
4280 was-were A flat roof meant having to shovel off ash occasionally , which was why most skaa buildings were peaked , but in Kelsier 's opinion the view was often worth a bit of trouble .
4281 was-were They were n't rotting yet -- the attack had happened only that morning -- but there was still a smell of death about the room .
4282 was-were Reen 's training told her that these men were fools , but she was tempted , enticed , by the possibility that Kelsier and the others offered .
4283 was-were Somehow she knew each of those capstones was intricately carved , despite the fact that they were too far away to be seen from below .
4284 was-were He did feel that there was a tension rising between the houses ; though the balls continued , there were more and more absences as people did n't attend parties thrown by their political rivals .
4285 was-were Some of the words were beyond her skill , but she was able to grasp the author 's meaning .
4286 was-were It was still midday , but there were n't any important events happening until the evening , so she had nowhere to go but back to Fellise .
4287 was-were Vin had assumed that they were too packed to move , but apparently she was wrong .
4288 was-were `` If it were , Inquisitors would be able to sense Allomancy even when there was a Smoker nearby .
4289 was-were They were n't extensive -- he was playing a low-ranked obligator -- but the pattern was unmistakable .
4290 was-were All of the keeps were beautiful , but there was no denying which one was the finest .
4291 was-were All of the keeps were beautiful , but there was no denying which one was the finest .
4292 was-were Noblemen were n't supposed to be afraid of such things , but that did n't change the fact that the deep , caliginous mist was just plain creepy .
4293 was-were They were noblemen , so Venture could n't execute them , but he was very fond of the more brutal disciplinary forms .
4294 was-were Kelsier 's words about altruism and working to help the skaa were all well and good , but I was always hoping that we 'd still get to take a swipe at that treasury . ''
4295 was-were There was a sense of mourning regarding Marsh , but these were men who knew how to move on despite their losses .
4296 was-were That wound was n't new -- but the bruises , cuts , and scrapes were fresh .
4297 was-were His words were brave , but he was obviously no soldier .
4298 was-were She was n't certain what she wanted anymore ; she was n't certain if she were Vin or Valette , or even which of them she wished that she were .
4299 was-were She was n't certain what she wanted anymore ; she was n't certain if she were Vin or Valette , or even which of them she wished that she were .
4300 was-were She concedes that there were unintended negative consequences from her husband 's crime bill , but declines to say there was any racial undertone to that.Mr .
4301 was-were I know why it was happening , because an electrical current in its nodes were still firing , ' Ms. O'Donnell said .
4302 was-were Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows , even those on which he did not appear.Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate - Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio - were both asked about Mr. Trump.Mr .
4303 was-were Talent nonetheless insisted that '' the mission is going well '' and further declared that the invasion was justified even when no weapons of mass destruction were found .
4304 was-were After the debate , the audience underwent a reversal : 59 percent were now convinced that the proper course of action was to contain ISIS rather than to pour blood and treasure into an attempt to destroy it.But Fontaine was not won over . ''
4305 was-were But I think that if I were succeeded by a Republican president - and I 'll be doing everything that I can to prevent that from happening - but if I were , that Republican president would be in a much stronger position than I was when I came into office , in terms of constraining Iran 's nuclear program .
4306 was-were The reason they did was because my administration , our diplomats , and oftentimes me personally , were able to persuade them that the only way to resolve this nuclear problem was to make these sanctions bite .
4307 was-were When the Republican House majority leader at the time , Dick Armey , balked at invading Iraq unprovoked , because Saddam was a clownish tyrant but not a nuclear menace to America , Dick Cheney summoned Armey to his Capitol hideaway and coerced him with brazen fabrications.As Barton Gellman wrote in ` Angler : The Cheney Vice Presidency , ' Cheney tried to spook his old friend in September 2002 by confiding that the Iraqis were well on their way to developing miniaturized nuclear weapons and that Al Qaeda was working with Saddam and his family - both spurious assertions.Aside from the Blair poodle and the Coalition of the Willing-to-Overlook-Counterfeit-Claims , our allies tried to warn us .
4308 was-were Called Form 8962 , it was new for this year 's tax filing season.-About 710,000 households that did not file a 2014 return by the tax-filing deadline , although they were legally required to account for health insurance tax credits.-Some 360,000 households that got tax credits and requested an extension to file their returns .
4309 was-were He also attended a party on the island thrown by Democratic power broker Vernon Jordan , who also hosted an even last year where Obama was spotted on the dance floor.But there were no images of Obama dancing this year .
4310 was-were ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
4311 was-were ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
4312 was-were ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
4313 was-were It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
4314 was-were It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
4315 was-were However , this was a people who had been fed on nothing but soup and gruel since they were children .
4316 was-were He was missing a hand , but his eyes and ears were among the keenest in the crew .
4317 was-were There was a window , though its shutters were closed against approaching gloom .
4318 was-were He was even taller than Kelsier -- tall enough to be a bit abnormal -- and his arms were unusually long .
4319 was-were The late-autumn air was cool , but winters were generally mild in the Central Dominance .
4320 was-were A flat roof meant having to shovel off ash occasionally , which was why most skaa buildings were peaked , but in Kelsier 's opinion the view was often worth a bit of trouble .
4321 was-were They were n't rotting yet -- the attack had happened only that morning -- but there was still a smell of death about the room .
4322 was-were Reen 's training told her that these men were fools , but she was tempted , enticed , by the possibility that Kelsier and the others offered .
4323 was-were Somehow she knew each of those capstones was intricately carved , despite the fact that they were too far away to be seen from below .
4324 was-were He did feel that there was a tension rising between the houses ; though the balls continued , there were more and more absences as people did n't attend parties thrown by their political rivals .
4325 was-were Some of the words were beyond her skill , but she was able to grasp the author 's meaning .
4326 was-were It was still midday , but there were n't any important events happening until the evening , so she had nowhere to go but back to Fellise .
4327 was-were Vin had assumed that they were too packed to move , but apparently she was wrong .
4328 was-were `` If it were , Inquisitors would be able to sense Allomancy even when there was a Smoker nearby .
4329 was-were They were n't extensive -- he was playing a low-ranked obligator -- but the pattern was unmistakable .
4330 was-were All of the keeps were beautiful , but there was no denying which one was the finest .
4331 was-were All of the keeps were beautiful , but there was no denying which one was the finest .
4332 was-were Noblemen were n't supposed to be afraid of such things , but that did n't change the fact that the deep , caliginous mist was just plain creepy .
4333 was-were They were noblemen , so Venture could n't execute them , but he was very fond of the more brutal disciplinary forms .
4334 was-were Kelsier 's words about altruism and working to help the skaa were all well and good , but I was always hoping that we 'd still get to take a swipe at that treasury . ''
4335 was-were There was a sense of mourning regarding Marsh , but these were men who knew how to move on despite their losses .
4336 was-were That wound was n't new -- but the bruises , cuts , and scrapes were fresh .
4337 was-were His words were brave , but he was obviously no soldier .
4338 was-were She was n't certain what she wanted anymore ; she was n't certain if she were Vin or Valette , or even which of them she wished that she were .
4339 was-were She was n't certain what she wanted anymore ; she was n't certain if she were Vin or Valette , or even which of them she wished that she were .
4340 was-were She concedes that there were unintended negative consequences from her husband 's crime bill , but declines to say there was any racial undertone to that.Mr .
4341 was-were I know why it was happening , because an electrical current in its nodes were still firing , ' Ms. O'Donnell said .
4342 was-were Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows , even those on which he did not appear.Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate - Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio - were both asked about Mr. Trump.Mr .
4343 was-were Talent nonetheless insisted that '' the mission is going well '' and further declared that the invasion was justified even when no weapons of mass destruction were found .
4344 was-were After the debate , the audience underwent a reversal : 59 percent were now convinced that the proper course of action was to contain ISIS rather than to pour blood and treasure into an attempt to destroy it.But Fontaine was not won over . ''
4345 was-were But I think that if I were succeeded by a Republican president - and I 'll be doing everything that I can to prevent that from happening - but if I were , that Republican president would be in a much stronger position than I was when I came into office , in terms of constraining Iran 's nuclear program .
4346 was-were The reason they did was because my administration , our diplomats , and oftentimes me personally , were able to persuade them that the only way to resolve this nuclear problem was to make these sanctions bite .
4347 was-were When the Republican House majority leader at the time , Dick Armey , balked at invading Iraq unprovoked , because Saddam was a clownish tyrant but not a nuclear menace to America , Dick Cheney summoned Armey to his Capitol hideaway and coerced him with brazen fabrications.As Barton Gellman wrote in ` Angler : The Cheney Vice Presidency , ' Cheney tried to spook his old friend in September 2002 by confiding that the Iraqis were well on their way to developing miniaturized nuclear weapons and that Al Qaeda was working with Saddam and his family - both spurious assertions.Aside from the Blair poodle and the Coalition of the Willing-to-Overlook-Counterfeit-Claims , our allies tried to warn us .
4348 was-were Called Form 8962 , it was new for this year 's tax filing season.-About 710,000 households that did not file a 2014 return by the tax-filing deadline , although they were legally required to account for health insurance tax credits.-Some 360,000 households that got tax credits and requested an extension to file their returns .
4349 was-were He also attended a party on the island thrown by Democratic power broker Vernon Jordan , who also hosted an even last year where Obama was spotted on the dance floor.But there were no images of Obama dancing this year .
4350 was-were ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
4351 was-were ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
4352 was-were ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
4353 was-were It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
4354 was-were It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
4355 was-were However , this was a people who had been fed on nothing but soup and gruel since they were children .
4356 was-were He was missing a hand , but his eyes and ears were among the keenest in the crew .
4357 was-were There was a window , though its shutters were closed against approaching gloom .
4358 was-were He was even taller than Kelsier -- tall enough to be a bit abnormal -- and his arms were unusually long .
4359 was-were The late-autumn air was cool , but winters were generally mild in the Central Dominance .
4360 was-were A flat roof meant having to shovel off ash occasionally , which was why most skaa buildings were peaked , but in Kelsier 's opinion the view was often worth a bit of trouble .
4361 was-were They were n't rotting yet -- the attack had happened only that morning -- but there was still a smell of death about the room .
4362 was-were Reen 's training told her that these men were fools , but she was tempted , enticed , by the possibility that Kelsier and the others offered .
4363 was-were Somehow she knew each of those capstones was intricately carved , despite the fact that they were too far away to be seen from below .
4364 was-were He did feel that there was a tension rising between the houses ; though the balls continued , there were more and more absences as people did n't attend parties thrown by their political rivals .
4365 was-were Some of the words were beyond her skill , but she was able to grasp the author 's meaning .
4366 was-were It was still midday , but there were n't any important events happening until the evening , so she had nowhere to go but back to Fellise .
4367 was-were Vin had assumed that they were too packed to move , but apparently she was wrong .
4368 was-were `` If it were , Inquisitors would be able to sense Allomancy even when there was a Smoker nearby .
4369 was-were They were n't extensive -- he was playing a low-ranked obligator -- but the pattern was unmistakable .
4370 was-were All of the keeps were beautiful , but there was no denying which one was the finest .
4371 was-were All of the keeps were beautiful , but there was no denying which one was the finest .
4372 was-were Noblemen were n't supposed to be afraid of such things , but that did n't change the fact that the deep , caliginous mist was just plain creepy .
4373 was-were They were noblemen , so Venture could n't execute them , but he was very fond of the more brutal disciplinary forms .
4374 was-were Kelsier 's words about altruism and working to help the skaa were all well and good , but I was always hoping that we 'd still get to take a swipe at that treasury . ''
4375 was-were There was a sense of mourning regarding Marsh , but these were men who knew how to move on despite their losses .
4376 was-were That wound was n't new -- but the bruises , cuts , and scrapes were fresh .
4377 was-were His words were brave , but he was obviously no soldier .
4378 was-were She was n't certain what she wanted anymore ; she was n't certain if she were Vin or Valette , or even which of them she wished that she were .
4379 was-were She was n't certain what she wanted anymore ; she was n't certain if she were Vin or Valette , or even which of them she wished that she were .
4380 was-were She concedes that there were unintended negative consequences from her husband 's crime bill , but declines to say there was any racial undertone to that.Mr .
4381 was-were I know why it was happening , because an electrical current in its nodes were still firing , ' Ms. O'Donnell said .
4382 was-were Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows , even those on which he did not appear.Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate - Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio - were both asked about Mr. Trump.Mr .
4383 was-were Talent nonetheless insisted that '' the mission is going well '' and further declared that the invasion was justified even when no weapons of mass destruction were found .
4384 was-were After the debate , the audience underwent a reversal : 59 percent were now convinced that the proper course of action was to contain ISIS rather than to pour blood and treasure into an attempt to destroy it.But Fontaine was not won over . ''
4385 was-were But I think that if I were succeeded by a Republican president - and I 'll be doing everything that I can to prevent that from happening - but if I were , that Republican president would be in a much stronger position than I was when I came into office , in terms of constraining Iran 's nuclear program .
4386 was-were The reason they did was because my administration , our diplomats , and oftentimes me personally , were able to persuade them that the only way to resolve this nuclear problem was to make these sanctions bite .
4387 was-were When the Republican House majority leader at the time , Dick Armey , balked at invading Iraq unprovoked , because Saddam was a clownish tyrant but not a nuclear menace to America , Dick Cheney summoned Armey to his Capitol hideaway and coerced him with brazen fabrications.As Barton Gellman wrote in ` Angler : The Cheney Vice Presidency , ' Cheney tried to spook his old friend in September 2002 by confiding that the Iraqis were well on their way to developing miniaturized nuclear weapons and that Al Qaeda was working with Saddam and his family - both spurious assertions.Aside from the Blair poodle and the Coalition of the Willing-to-Overlook-Counterfeit-Claims , our allies tried to warn us .
4388 was-were Called Form 8962 , it was new for this year 's tax filing season.-About 710,000 households that did not file a 2014 return by the tax-filing deadline , although they were legally required to account for health insurance tax credits.-Some 360,000 households that got tax credits and requested an extension to file their returns .
4389 was-were He also attended a party on the island thrown by Democratic power broker Vernon Jordan , who also hosted an even last year where Obama was spotted on the dance floor.But there were no images of Obama dancing this year .
4390 was-were ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
4391 was-were ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
4392 was-were ` Cruz , Trump and Even Captain America Brave Heat at Iran RallyThe lawn in front of Mr. Cruz was littered with American flags and signs , costumed Tea Party activists and a former Marine dressed as Captain America.But pushed to the outskirts of the West Lawn , where Mr. Cruz , Mr. Trump and other conservative voices were leading a rally against the Iran deal , a ring of people sought shelter not from the crowds but from the sun.Such are the risks of staging an event in early September in Washington , where 90-degree heat is compounded by humidity to remind everyone they 're standing in a swamp.The heat can also keep people away , perhaps explaining why the crowd facing Mr. Trump was slightly smaller than he 's used to.Not absent , however , were the many , many reporters and cameras that follow Mr. Trump wherever he goes .
4393 was-were It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
4394 was-were It was n't a promise , or even an endorsement -- for the most part , obligators were more bureaucrats and witnesses than they were priests -- but to hear such praise from one of the Lord Ruler 's own servants ... Tresting knew that some nobility considered the obligators to be unsettling -- some men even considered them a bother -- but at that moment , Testing could have kissed his distinguished guest .
4395 was-were However , this was a people who had been fed on nothing but soup and gruel since they were children .
4396 was-were He was missing a hand , but his eyes and ears were among the keenest in the crew .
4397 was-were There was a window , though its shutters were closed against approaching gloom .
4398 was-were He was even taller than Kelsier -- tall enough to be a bit abnormal -- and his arms were unusually long .
4399 was-were The late-autumn air was cool , but winters were generally mild in the Central Dominance .
4400 was-were A flat roof meant having to shovel off ash occasionally , which was why most skaa buildings were peaked , but in Kelsier 's opinion the view was often worth a bit of trouble .
4401 was-were They were n't rotting yet -- the attack had happened only that morning -- but there was still a smell of death about the room .
4402 was-were Reen 's training told her that these men were fools , but she was tempted , enticed , by the possibility that Kelsier and the others offered .
4403 was-were Somehow she knew each of those capstones was intricately carved , despite the fact that they were too far away to be seen from below .
4404 was-were He did feel that there was a tension rising between the houses ; though the balls continued , there were more and more absences as people did n't attend parties thrown by their political rivals .
4405 was-were Some of the words were beyond her skill , but she was able to grasp the author 's meaning .
4406 was-were It was still midday , but there were n't any important events happening until the evening , so she had nowhere to go but back to Fellise .
4407 was-were Vin had assumed that they were too packed to move , but apparently she was wrong .
4408 was-were `` If it were , Inquisitors would be able to sense Allomancy even when there was a Smoker nearby .
4409 was-were They were n't extensive -- he was playing a low-ranked obligator -- but the pattern was unmistakable .
4410 was-were All of the keeps were beautiful , but there was no denying which one was the finest .
4411 was-were All of the keeps were beautiful , but there was no denying which one was the finest .
4412 was-were Noblemen were n't supposed to be afraid of such things , but that did n't change the fact that the deep , caliginous mist was just plain creepy .
4413 was-were They were noblemen , so Venture could n't execute them , but he was very fond of the more brutal disciplinary forms .
4414 was-were Kelsier 's words about altruism and working to help the skaa were all well and good , but I was always hoping that we 'd still get to take a swipe at that treasury . ''
4415 was-were There was a sense of mourning regarding Marsh , but these were men who knew how to move on despite their losses .
4416 was-were That wound was n't new -- but the bruises , cuts , and scrapes were fresh .
4417 was-were His words were brave , but he was obviously no soldier .
4418 was-were She was n't certain what she wanted anymore ; she was n't certain if she were Vin or Valette , or even which of them she wished that she were .
4419 was-were She was n't certain what she wanted anymore ; she was n't certain if she were Vin or Valette , or even which of them she wished that she were .
4420 was-were She concedes that there were unintended negative consequences from her husband 's crime bill , but declines to say there was any racial undertone to that.Mr .
4421 was-were I know why it was happening , because an electrical current in its nodes were still firing , ' Ms. O'Donnell said .
4422 was-wore Like Laird , he wore gray robes , but he was very different from the stern , bureaucratic men Camon had dealt with before .
4423 was-wore He also wore a nobleman 's suit , though his was less sharply tailored .
4424 was-wore It was sleeveless , but the blue silk gloves she wore ran all the way past her elbows .
4425 was-working When the Republican House majority leader at the time , Dick Armey , balked at invading Iraq unprovoked , because Saddam was a clownish tyrant but not a nuclear menace to America , Dick Cheney summoned Armey to his Capitol hideaway and coerced him with brazen fabrications.As Barton Gellman wrote in ` Angler : The Cheney Vice Presidency , ' Cheney tried to spook his old friend in September 2002 by confiding that the Iraqis were well on their way to developing miniaturized nuclear weapons and that Al Qaeda was working with Saddam and his family - both spurious assertions.Aside from the Blair poodle and the Coalition of the Willing-to-Overlook-Counterfeit-Claims , our allies tried to warn us .
4426 was-working If he was caught ... Well , scamming noblemen and obligators was a very dangerous profession -- but it certainly beat working in the forges or the textile mills .
4427 was-working If he was caught ... Well , scamming noblemen and obligators was a very dangerous profession -- but it certainly beat working in the forges or the textile mills .
4428 was-working It was still somewhat light outside , but Dockson already had the evening drapes drawn and was working by candlelight .
4429 was-working Kelsier 's words about altruism and working to help the skaa were all well and good , but I was always hoping that we 'd still get to take a swipe at that treasury . ''
4430 was-working The legislators who sponsored the 2013 law have refused to testify , citing legislative immunity.During closing arguments Friday , Judge Schroeder , who was appointed by President George W. Bush , peppered the plaintiffs ' lawyers with questions about why the repeal of extra voting opportunities that do not exist in many states would be illegal.But he also pressed the state 's lawyers on what motivated legislators to make the sudden changes to a system that seemed to be popular and working well .
4431 wear-wore Vin wore the same brown overalls and gray shirt she had before , though she at least had the sense to wear a nondescript cloak with the hood up .
4432 were-wore It wore Kelsier 's face , but the eyes ... they were different .
4433 were-wounded Two of their members lay wounded on the floor -- but three of Elend 's men were down .
4434 wondered-wondering She 'd never really wondered about the Deepness before , but Sazed 's lessons left her wondering .
